10/6/17 Release Notes


General Proposal Tool Improvements 

New Features:

Added ability to choose primary and secondary company colors.

Colors can be set in Settings > General section of your account.
When you create a proposal template, your company colors will be the default theme colors for certain elements such as lines, graphs, charts, etc... 
A singular proposal template's specific theme colors can be changed in the proposal template's settings modal.


Added a line drawing tool.
Added logo proposal template box .
Added a block type "Logo", in "Image" of the template side toolbar.
Ability to add up to two logos in Settings > General, one with a light background and another with a dark background.
Added border-radius field to give the ability to create rounded corners.

Added font-weight options (Thin, Light, Regular, Medium, Bold, Black).
Added the ability to "Publish" or save proposal templates for use in a project. Think about this in the same way you save some modules, inverters, utility rates, etc... for use in projects.


Proposal Improvements

Added the ability to create proposals even if a financial analysis has not been completed. A proposal with financing(s) dependent placeholders can be generated, but the financing placeholders will show n/a until a financing is selected .
Added a warning message when a proposal is generated without a financial analysis when one is required.
Added the ability to select financing(s) from the proposal settings menu
Added ability to hide pages in proposals.


Proposal Template Improvements

Moved the grid icon from the side toolbar to the "Details" menu in the top toolbar.
Added chart icons and a chart submenu to the side toolbar.
Added "Insert page" button in-between pages (button still exists at end of template too).


Proposal Template Blocks Improvements

Proposal blocks now move and resize free-form unless grid is toggled on. If grid is toggled on they snap in half-grid increments.
Added control points to handle resizing in place of dragging borders.
Immediately placed into edit mode upon creation of a textbox.

Added 3 callouts/annotations in the lifetime bill comparison chart (first year pre-solar, final year pre-solar, and final year post-solar). 
Display "n/a" instead of "(not defined)" when value isn't present in the proposal.
Added "Organization Name" placeholder.





LIDAR Improvements

Implemented new triangulation method for our LIDAR.
Added error message for locations where LIDAR point cloud data is empty.


Consumption Page Improvements

Added timezone adjustment for SDGE green button data.
Green button consumption data is no longer editable.


