Aurora AI in Design Mode

Using HD satellite imagery and LIDAR data, Aurora AI in Design Mode allows users to automatically detect and generate roof faces and obstructions within Design Mode using Aurora’s AI technology.
*Please note that Aurora AI is an add-on to Custom Plans. To learn more and gain access, reach out to your account team.

Aurora AI automatically detects and generates roof models in about 30 seconds, or even faster for simple roofs. To get started, follow these steps:
1. In order to enable Aurora AI, the app will first load LIDAR and HD imagery for the site.

If LIDAR or HD imagery are not available, the app will show a warning message that the AI Roof feature will not be accessible. In these cases, you can manually draw the roof faces from Design Mode.

2. When available, select one of the roof options under the Roof section in the Site menu:


AI SmartRoof: When selected, Aurora AI will generate a SmartRoof output, which infers the inner faces and allows users to edit and delete faces in the context of the whole roof.


To learn more about SmartRoof, see New Aurora: Roof Design Training.




AI Roof faces: When selected, Aurora AI will generate an output of roof faces, which allows users to create and manually edit each face in isolation.


3. If there are already roofs in the design, a modal will pop-up with the option to keep or override existing roofs with the AI Roof. Click “Override roofs” to continue running Aurora AI.

4. The app will run AI Roof and generate the roof faces. 

A warning message will be displayed if any issues are encountered during the AI Roof process. If an error occurs, you can manually draw the roof faces in Design Mode.

5. The roof faces can then be edited or modified as necessary. 

 
FAQ
How do I decide to run AI SmartRoof or AI Roof faces?
When deciding which AI roof option to run, take these considerations into mind:


AI SmartRoof: Most designers prefer editing SmartRoof roof models, as it offers a faster and easier way to edit roofs. However, when running AI SmartRoof on more complex roofs, the algorithm may take longer to run, generate a less accurate result, or be more likely to produce an error result.


AI Roof faces: The roof faces model offers more flexibility when editing individual roof faces, and may be more reliable in generating a roof.


 
What type of roof appears when I run Aurora AI in Sales Mode?
You can configure your account from the Settings page to select which type of roof you’d like Aurora AI to run in Sales Mode: (1) SmartRoof or (2) Roof Faces. 

 