3. Analyze Shading, How to Place Modules, and Simulating Energy Output

After you have completed your site model, you are ready to design a solar installation for the customer. 

Shading Analysis

Click the Irradiance button in the top toolbar.
Hover your mouse over the roof surface to retrieve point Irradiance, Solar Access, TSRF, and other values.


     3. To get interactive monthly charts, click the arrows on the top right corner of the irradiance     summary box.
The shading analysis confirms the southern roof face is a good fit for solar panels.
Fill Roof Face Module Placement
Much of the time, you're interested in fitting as many modules on a roof as possible and removing as necessary. Aurora's Fill Roof Face feature allows you to do this easily.

Click System in the left toolbar. Select Insert Panels and choose Modules (press the M key as a shortcut). 

Next, choose the 'Aurora Sample Solar Panel' from the dropdown, and the 'Aurora Sample Micro-Inverter [250W].'
Click the Fill Roof Face button. Select a roof to fill the available space with modules.


Manual Module Placement

Click the System button in the left toolbar. Select Insert Panels and choose Modules (M).

Fill in the information for the type of module you would like to input. Aurora has a vast database of components that you can star and make available in this list. For now, enter the following:


Module: Aurora Sample Solar Panel
Microinverter: Aurora Sample Micro-Inverter [250W]
Orientation: Portrait

     3. Click and drag on the roof surface to place your array.

Moving Individual Modules

Click and drag a module to move it.
Select multiple modules by holding down the shift key as you click on modules. Drag them to move jointly.

Box Selecting Multiple Modules

Click and drag a rectangle that covers part of the array.
Click and drag to move it over to a different side of the roof.


Deleting Individual Modules

Select some of the modules, either by holding down the shift key and clicking, or clicking and dragging to highlight multiple modules.
Hit the delete key on your keyboard.


Click and drag the camera cube/ring to shift the orientation of your layout view. You can also right click and drag to shift the orientation.

Once you have completed your system design, Aurora can simulate how much energy the system will generate over time and then evaluate the financial return of the design.
Simulating Energy Output

In your design click the Simulate button on the right and wait for the simulation to run.
Once completed, click on the downward triangle next to the Simulate button to view a bar chart showing how much energy the system generates and efficiency losses.


Simulating the energy output paves the way for financial analysis.
Next: Create a Financing Option and Generate a Sales Proposal