Using HD Imagery: A Quickstart Guide

We're excited to bring you the sharpest and most visually stunning HD aerial imagery directly in Aurora through our partners at Nearmap. 

Some benefits of HD imagery are:

Crystal clear roof outline
See roof obstructions 
More current image - Nearmap imagery may only be a few months old versus a few years old. This allows you to:

View site imagery for various times of year (i.e. spring vs fall) 
View new construction (for which Google maps has not updated satellite imagery)
Reduce truckrolls


Impress your clients with the best looking image of their property

To get started using HD Imagery in Aurora, follow these steps:
Step 1: Go to Settings and On-Demand Services
Go to Settings -> On-Demand Services -> Get Credits 

Step 2: Check the coverage map to see if HD Imagery is available for your area
Zoom into your desired serviceable area(s) on the map to ensure that HD Imagery is available for your area(s). 




Several updates per year
 At least one update per year




 
Step 3: Purchase a bundle of HD images
Purchase the desired amount of images. We offer four bundle sizes. If you would like to purchase a larger bundle than offered, please contact hello@aurorasolar.com

If you would NOT like to automatically repurchase credits as they run low, please uncheck that box.
Once purchased, HD Imagery credits will be available to ALL users within your account.
Step 4: Use HD Imagery in your Aurora projects
Within an Aurora project, in the site model, you can use HD imagery by hitting the “HD” icon in the image settings toolbar or by hitting “Get HD Imagery” in the dropdown. This will open a screen where you can choose what imagery to use.

 
Near the bottom, you should see how many HD imagery credits you have available. You will also see a button that says “Use 1 credit”, or a larger number of credits if you select a large image region or multiple dates.

Some locations have HD images from multiple dates in the past. This can be useful to see the progress of a construction site or view the site during different seasons of the year. 

Check all of the dates for which you would like the HD imagery.
Step 5: Enjoy your HD Imagery!
 
If you have any issues or further questions with the HD imagery or questions, please check out the HD Imagery FAQ.