SmartRoof Best Practices and Tips

 

Click Map Split to activate the Map or Street View to obtain information about the roof (roof tilt, roof profile, obstructions, shade threats). In Map View you can rotate the angled view to see more of the roof profile.

Utilize additional imagery sources (Bing or Google) if the default Google HD image is skewed or blurry. You can also upload your own imagery, or purchase Nearmap HD imagery. 

Expand the satellite image if you need to see more of the surrounding area by moving your cursor outside the edge of the satellite imagery and left-click to expand (note this will not work for NearMap imagery since you choose the tile size at the time of purchase).To activate the SmartRoof tool, click SmartRoof under the SITE menu.
As a shortcut, you can also press the R key on your keyboard. If you are in a residential project this will default to a Pitched Roof and in a commercial project, this will default to a Flat Roof.

Left-click on a corner of the roof to place your first node. When placing your second node make your line parallel to the roof structure in the satellite imagery.
Once you’ve placed your first two nodes follow the orange-dotted lines to allow the 90 degree snapping effect.

Edit Roof Mode

Once an outline is drawn with the SmartRoof tool you will automatically enter the Edit Roof mode. In the Edit Roof mode you can unpitch a roof surface, change the roof parameters (pitch/slope, edge height, and roof length) and add folds and dormers to the structure. Left-click the roof section to open the EDGE & FACE menu on the right.


Pitching/Unpitching Roofs


In the Edit Roof mode left-click the roof section you would like to unpitch. Then click the unpitch button in the EDGE & FACE menu on the right (alternatively you can press delete or backspace on your keyboard once you’ve selected the roof section). 


Modifying Internal Lines


If you’ve outlined the structure and the internal lines don’t match the satellite imagery there are three ways you can modify the internal lines:


Changing the Pitch/Slope -First familiarize yourself with the site by looking at the Map View and Street View or LIDAR to determine the roof pitch/slope. The pitch can be adjusted in the Edge & Face properties on the right. As a general rule, if the roof plane appears larger than the satellite imagery the pitch/slope will need to be increased and vice versa if the roof plane appears smaller.

Changing the Edge Height - Similar to altering the pitch, first utilize additional imagery to determine the eave heights. You can then adjust the Edge (eave) Height value in the Edge and Face menu (common for a saltbox homes).

Dragging Internal Lines - Hold left-click and drag one of the internal lines to match the satellite imagery.  
Be mindful of skewed or distorted imagery. Always utilize additional image sources like Map View and Street View to ensure you are drawing your model correctly.


Dormers

In Edit Roof mode you can select from green banner to insert a Dormer into your structure. In Aurora Dormers are classified by the number of slopes:

Left-click to select the Dormer and move your cursor over your structure. The Dormer will automatically match the azimuth or direction of the roof slope. Left-click to place the Dormer at the intersection of the Dormer's ridge and the roof's slope.  Left-click and drag the external nodes of the dormer to resize.

By default dormers drawn with the SmartRoof tool will not display setbacks. You can display the setbacks by clicking the “settings” gear icon in the top menu then checking the “dormers” box.

Converting a Dormer to the Roof -If you wish to add modules to the Dormer or make further adjustments to the height and pitch we recommend clicking the Convert To Roof button in the Dormer menu on the right. By converting the Dormer to a roof the Dormer becomes an independent structure and setbacks will automatically display. 

Folds
Similar to Dormers, you can add Folds to your structure in the Edit Roof mode. Aurora gives you the option to add three different types of Folds:


Left-click on the type of Fold you would like to insert. Move your cursor over to the roof and left-click to place.  


For even more tips on SmartRoof tool make sure to attend the SmartRoof webinar held on Mondays at 11:00 am PST. If you have additional questions please email support@aurorasolar.com 
 