Plan Sets: Filling out the Intake Form

This guide is designed to help users complete the Plan Sets intake form. It provides additional information on the minimum content required in the form, and which images from the site survey should be included in the photo uploader section. All the required fields and photos are necessary for an accurate plan set to be created. In the absence of any of the required fields or photos, the Plan Sets request may be rejected.

 
Table of Contents:
Project Information
Mounting Planes
Electrical
Racking and Attachment
Images and Documents
Review and Submit
 
 

Project Information

Project name, address and utility information will fill automatically. 
If homeowner information is filled out in the Project Overview, the fields will auto-populate.  Otherwise, be sure to complete the homeowner information fields. 
Be sure to complete the required fields in this section:

Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ) information
Contractor information


 
 
Mounting Planes
Pitch, azimuth and array information will fill automatically from the Aurora model.
Be sure to fill in each mounting plane.

 
 
Electrical
All electrical fields are required.
Add additional subpanels as needed. 

 
 
Racking and Attachment
All racking and attachment fields are required.

 
 
Images and Documents
At a minimum, please include photos of the following:

Main Service Panel
MSP label
Meter
Full picture of location of BOS components
Rafters on which design will be installed
Roof on which design will be installed
Any subpanels


 
 
Review and Submit
Once all the project information has been added to the corresponding section, please review before submitting the Plan Set request.
 
Note: Once the request has been submitted the intake form will not allow any changes until the plan set has been generated. If you require quick support or a revision to something already submitted, please reach out to permitting@aurorasolar.com to get direct support from the design team.
 
 