Storage

Overview
Aurora's Energy Storage tool allows you to quickly and accurately design and price a battery system for your customer. 
When entering the Storage module, you'll be greeted with the following information. 


Saver Package - The Saver storage package serves an average house and covers 5 hours/day for 1 day. The battery load is 25%. 

Average Package - The Average storage package serves an average house and covers 5 hours/day for 2 days. The battery load is 50%. 

Power Package - The Power storage package serves an average house and covers 5 hours/day for 5 days. The battery load is 100%. 

Daily Average Load - This is the average daily energy consumption of the home. This number is being calculated using the consumption information inputted in the Consumption tab. This load number is in kWh. 

Daily Average Energy Production - This is the average daily production of the PV System designed in Aurora. This production number is in kWh.


Configuration
Once a package has been selected, you're able to move on to fine tuning your system to meet your customer's needs. There are five key variables that can be adjusted to change the system configuration. 


Backup Load - What percentage of the energy usage profiled on the Consumption tab should be backed up.

Backup Duration - How long should the batteries be able to power the home, at the Backup Load, before being depleted.

Backup Duration - Calculations



Quantity of Batteries - A multiplier for the number of individual batteries in your setup.

Battery - The model of the battery you'd like to use. If you do not see your component, you can add it yourself in the Database or reach out to Support@aurorasolar.com for assistance adding it to the global database. 
Storage Inverter - Batteries themselves use DC electricity like solar panels, so an inverter is needed for these setups. Some batteries have internal DC-AC inverters - these are automatically selected for you. When you are using a standalone DC battery, Aurora will default to any storage-compatible inverter you have in your design, otherwise it will use your account’s preference setting.

Price - You can set pricing for storage in the Storage Configuration page. You can enter either a flat cost, or a cost per kWh for your system. Prices here are included in financial calculations.


You will need to favorite the Batteries and Inverters in order to be able to select them
Defaults
You can select a default Battery and Storage inverter that will be used in your designs. As an account admin, you can go to the Settings menu under your name in the upper-right of the app, and then go to the Storage tab on the left. This will allow you to select a default battery and a default storage inverter that will be used for new storage designs.
