How to add custom DC optimizers to your account




Table of Contents
Optimizer Overview
Input
Output
Cost
 
Navigate to the "Add DC Optimizer" tab by selecting "Database", then click "DC Optimizers", then select "Add DC Optimizer". Once you have selected "Add DC Optimizer" follow the instructions below to create a custom DC optimizer in your Database. 
 

List of Fields: 
The fields starred (*) are required in order for the module to work in Aurora. Use information under Standard Test Conditions (STC) Section in your specification sheet: 
Optimizer Overview 
Manufacturer*

Add the manufacturer's name. If the name of the Manufacturer does not stick to the field, you will need to add it to the Manufacturer list in the database. 

Operating Model*

Select the operating model from the drop-down.

Uses Selective Optimization*

Leave this unchecked. 

Has a Global MPPT*

Check this, unless there is an explicit reason not to. 

Input
Max. Input Power at STC

Add the STC rated maximum input power in Watts. 

Max. Input Voltage

Add the maximum allowable voltage on the DC side of the optimizer.

Max. Input Current

Add the maximum input current in Amps. This is the current which flows through the DC side of the optimizer. Also called maximum short circuit current.

Min. MPPT Operating Voltage

Add the minimum MPPT (Maximum Power Point Tracking) voltage.

Max. MPPT Operating Voltage

Add the maximum MPPT (Maximum Power Point Tracking) voltage.

Max. System Voltage

Add the maximum system voltage.

Output
Max. Output Voltage


Add the maximum allowable voltage.


 Max. Output Current

Add the maximum output current.

 Efficiency

Add the efficiency. This is the ratio of usable AC output power to the sum of the DC input power and any AC input power. If no number is provided, use the max efficiency value from below. 

 Max. Efficiency

Add the maximum efficiency. This is the ratio of usable AC output power to the sum of the DC input power and any AC input power. If no number is provided, use the efficiency value from above. 

 
Cost
Supplier

Add the name of the supplier

Cost

Add the cost of the optimizer






