Placeholders

Aurora's customizable proposal template includes Placeholders that dynamically populate information when a proposal is generated.

How to add a Placeholder 
List of Placeholders 

How to add a Placeholder
To add a placeholder to your proposal template, please follow these steps:

Use an existing text box where you would like to place your placeholder or create a text box within your proposal document.
Click on the placeholder icon 

In the pop-up box, choose the placeholder you would like to insert. You can search by category or placeholder name. 


List of Placeholders
The following gives a list of all available proposal and their definition, organized by category:

General
Customer
Project
Design
Storage
Utility Bill 
Financing
Incentives
Savings
PPA
Lease
Loan
Environment
User

General


Date: Today's date

Page No: The current page number

Total Pages: The total number of pages in the proposal

Customer


Customer Salutation: The salutation of the customer (e.g. "Mrs." or "Dr.")

Customer First Name: The first name of the customer

Customer Last Name: The last name (surname) of the customer

Customer Address: The address of the customer

Customer Email: The customer's email address

Customer Phone No: The customer's phone number

Project


Name: The name of the project

Address: The address of the project. Note that this need not be the same as the address of the customer

Consumption Pre-Solar (Yrly Avg): The average annual consumption of the home before solar in kWh

Consumption Pre-Solar (Mthly Avg): The average monthly consumption of the home before solar in kWh

Design


Name: The name of the design

System Size (DC, STC): The system size in kWdc

System Size (DC, PTC): The system size in kWdc

System Size (AC): The system size in kWdc

Number of Modules: The number of modules in your design

Number of DC Optimizers: The number of DC optimizers in your design

Number of Inverters: The number of inverters and/or microinverters in your design

Production (Year 1): The estimated energy production of the system in year 1 in kWh

Production (Lifetime): The estimated energy production of the system over its lifetime in kWh

Production (Yrly Avg): The average annual energy production of the system over its lifetime in kWh

Production (Mthly Avg): The average monthly energy production of the system over its lifetime in kWh

Energy Offset % (Yr 1): The percent of the energy consumption of the home/building that the solar system offsets in the first year

Modules: List of solar modules by manufacturer and panel name used in the design, separated by commas

Inverters: List of solar inverters by manufacturer and inverter name used in the design, separated by commas

DC Optimizers: List of DC Optimizers by manufacturer and name used in the design, separated by commas

Storage


Battery Manufacturer: The manufacturer name of the battery selected in storage

Battery Name: The name of the battery selected in storage.


Battery Quantity: The number of batteries used in storage of the selected battery.


Storage System Capacity: The capacity of the storage system in kWh.


Storage System Round-Trip Efficiency: The percent of round-trip efficiency of the storage system.


Storage System Backup Duration (in days): The number of days the storage system backup lasts.


Storage System Backup Duration (in hours): The number of hours the storage system backup lasts.


Storage System Backup Peak Power Rating: The peak power rating of the storage system backup in kW.


Storage System Backup Continuous Power Rating: The continuous power rating of the storage system backup in kW.


Storage System Backup Percentage: The percent of load backed up in the storage system.


Storage System Cost (independent of other costs): The cost of the storage system.


Utility Bill


Utility Pre-Solar: The name of the utility provider before solar

Utility Post-Solar: The name of the utility provider after solar

Utility Rate Pre-Solar: The name of the utility rate before solar

Utility Rate Post-Solar: The name of the utility rate after solar (in case of a rate switch)

Utility Bill Pre-Solar (Yr 1 Total): The sum of the first year's worth of utility bills before going solar (as entered into the consumption page)

Utility Bill Pre-Solar (Yr 1 Mthly Avg): The average monthly utility bill for the first year before going solar (as entered into the consumption page)

Utility Bill Pre-Solar (Lifetime Mthly Avg): The average monthly utility bill if the customer does not go solar over the life of the PV system (including rate escalation)

Utility Bill Pre-Solar (Lifetime Yrly Avg): The average annual utility bill if the customer does not go solar over the life of the PV system (including rate escalation)

Utility Bill Pre-Solar (Lifetime Total): The sum of all electricity bills over the lifetime of the system if the customer does not go solar (including rate escalation)

Utility Bill Post-Solar (Yr 1 Total): The sum of the first year's worth of utility bills after going solar 

Utility Bill Post-Solar (Yr 1 Mthly Avg): The average monthly utility bill in the first year after going solar

Utility Bill Pre-Solar (Final Yr Mthly Avg): The monthly utility bill average during the final year of the project's life if the customer does not go solar (including rate escalation)

Utility Bill Post-Solar (Final Yr Mthly Avg): The monthly utility bill average during the final year of the project's life after going solar (including rate escalation)

Utility Bill Post-Solar (Lifetime Mthly Avg): Average monthly utility bill after going solar over the life of the PV system (including rate escalation)

Utility Bill Post-Solar (Lifetime Yrly Avg): The average yearly utility bill after going solar over the life of the PV system (including rate escalation)

Utility Bill Post-Solar (Lifetime Total): The sum of all electricity bills over the lifetime of the system if the customer goes solar (including rate escalation)

Utility Bill Savings (Yr 1 Total): The total utility bill savings in the first year after going solar

Utility Bill Savings (Yr 1 Mthly Avg): The average monthly utility bill savings in the first year after going solar.

Utility Bill Savings (Lifetime Total): The total utility bill savings after going solar over the life of the PV system

Avoided Cost % of Electric Bill (Yr 1): The percent of the electric bill of the home/building that the solar system offsets in the first year

Financing


IRR: The Internal Rate of Return measures the estimated percentage return from the project using the initial cost of the project and an estimate of the future cash flows to determine the interest rate.

NPV: The Net Present Value of the cashflows of the system. This is the sum of all discounted cashflows of the system.

LCOE: The Levelized Cost of Electricity of the system is the net present value of a kW of electricity produced by the solar installation over its lifetime

Payback Period: The simple payback period of the system in years. This is the time it takes to recover the system cost. Note: Future cashflows are not discounted.

Discount Rate: The rate at which future cashflows are discounted to today's dollars (as set in the financial tab)

Project Life: The assumed project life in years

Electricity Rate Escalation: The assumed annual increase in the electricity rate

Degradation Factor: The assumed annual percent value loss of efficiency of the solar system 

Profitability Index: The present value of future cashflows divided by the initial investment

Price Per Watt: The price per watt of the system

System Cost: The total system cost

FIT Revenues (Year 1): The feed-in tariff revenues in year 1

FIT Revenues (Lifetime): The feed-in tariff revenues over the lifetime of the system

PV of Depreciation Benefit: The present value of the tax benefit received from depreciating the PV system

Incentives


National CBI (Nominal Value): The sum of all national cost-based incentives

Local CBI (Nominal Value): The sum of all local cost-based incentives

National + Local CBI (Nominal  Value): The sum of all national and local cost-based incentives. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


National + Local CBI (Present Value): The sum of all national and local cost-based incentives. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

National + Local PBI (Present Value): The sum of all national and local performance-based incentives. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

Local PBI (Present Value): The sum of all local performance-based incentives. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

Grants: The sum of all grants

CBI Plus Grants: The sum of all cost-based incentives plus any grants

System Cost Less Grants: The system cost less grants

System Cost Less Incentives: The system cost less any incentives, i.e. CBI, PBI, and Grants

System Cost Less Nominal National + Local CBI: The system cost less any national and local cost-based incentives

System Cost with Adders & Discounts: The system cost with adders and discounts 

System Cost Less Incentives with Adders & Discounts: The system cost less incentives, with adders and discounts

Savings


Savings (Present Value, Mthly Avg): The average monthly savings over the lifetime of the system. This measure shows you a monthly average of savings you should expect over the entire life of your solar project. It takes into account all of the financial costs and benefits of going solar. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollars via the discount rate.


Savings (Nominal Value, Mthly Avg): The average monthly savings over the lifetime of the system. This measure shows you a monthly average of savings you should expect over the entire life of your solar project. It takes into account all of the financial costs and benefits of going solar. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


Savings (Present Value, Yrly Avg): The net present value of all savings over the lifetime of the system. This measure shows you a yearly average of savings you should expect over the entire life of your solar project. It takes into account all of the financial costs and benefits of going solar. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollars via the discount rate.


Savings (Nominal Value, Yrly Avg): The net present value of all savings over the lifetime of the system. This measure shows you a monthly average of savings you should expect over the entire life of your solar project. It takes into account all of the financial costs and benefits of going solar. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


Savings (Present Value, Lifetime): The lifetime savings of the system. This measure shows you how much savings you should expect over the entire life of your solar project. It takes into account all of the financial costs and benefits of going solar. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollars via the discount rate. 


Savings (Nominal Value, Lifetime): The lifetime savings of the system. This measure shows you how much savings you should expect over the entire life of your solar project. It takes into account all of the financial costs and benefits of going solar. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


Bill Pre-Solar (Mthly Avg): The average monthly bill before going solar

Amortized Cost Post-Solar (Yrly Avg): The average annual amortized cost after going solar, including the utility bill and all costs relating to the solar installation. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

Amortized Cost Post-Solar (Mthly Avg): The average monthly amortized cost after going solar, including the utility bill and all costs relating to the solar installation. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

Amortized Cost Post-Solar (Lifetime): The total cost after going solar, including the utility bill and all costs relating to the solar installation. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

PPA


PPA Price (Yr 1): The cost of electricity (per kWh) for year one of the PPA agreement

PPA Escalation: The annual escalation rate of the PPA price

PPA Payment (Upfront): The upfront sum payment prior to getting solar installed under a PPA agreement

PPA Payments (Nominal Value, Lifetime): The total amount of the PPA payments over the lifetime of the agreement. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


PPA Payments (Nominal Value, Yrly): The average yearly PPA payments over the lifetime of the agreement. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


PPA Payments (Nominal Value, Mthly): The average monthly PPA payments over the lifetime of the agreement. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


PPA Payments (Present Value, Lifetime): The total amount of PPA payments over the lifetime of the agreement. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

PPA Payments (Present Value, Yrly): The average yearly PPA payments over the lifetime of the agreement. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

PPA Payments (Present Value, Mthly): The average monthly PPA payments over the lifetime of the agreement. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

Lease


Lease Escalation: The rate at which lease payments will increase every year

Lease Payment (Upfront): The upfront payment prior to getting solar installed using a lease option

Lease Payments (Yr 1 Mthly): The monthly lease payments during the first year of going solar

Lease Payments (Nominal Value, Lifetime): The total amount of lease payments over the lifetime of the system. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


Lease Payments (Nominal Value, Yrly): The average yearly lease payments over the lifetime of the system. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


Lease Payments (Nominal Value, Mthly): The average monthly lease payments over the lifetime of the system. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


Lease Payments (Present Value, Lifetime): The total amount of lease payments over the lifetime of the system. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

Lease Payments (Present Value, Yrly): The average yearly lease payments over the lifetime of the system. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

Lease Payments (Present Value, Mthly): The average monthly lease payments over the lifetime of the system. This is a present value, i.e. the cashflows are converted into present-day dollar via the discount rate

Loan


Down Payment: The down payment of the system

Loan Payments (Nominal Value, Lifetime): The sum of all the loan payments over the life of the loan. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


Loan Payments (Nominal Value, Yrly): The average annual loan payment over the life of the loan. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted. 


Loan Payments (Nominal Value, Mthly): The average monthly loan payment over the life of the loan. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


Loan Payments Before Re-Amortization (Nominal Value, Mthly): The average monthly loan payment before re-amortization. Reamortization occurs when the lender recalculates the monthly payments in the second term of a loan or after a prepayment. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


Loan Payments After Re-Amortization (Nominal Value, Mthly): The average monthly loan payment after re-amortization. Reamortization occurs when the lender recalculates the monthly payments in the second term of a loan or after a prepayment. This value is nominal, i.e. future cashflows are not discounted.


Loan Payments (Present Value, Lifetime): The present value of all loan payments over the lifetime of the loan

Loan Term Length: The full length of the loan term(s)

Interest Rate: The interest rate(s) associated with the loan

Total Interest Paid Over Loan Term: The total amount of interest that will be paid over the full term of the loan.

Environment
Environmental placeholders give customers a sense of the positive environmental impact of going solar. These placeholders visualize the CO2 reduction of the solar system. The calculations for these estimates can be found here.


Vehicles Per Year: The equivalent number of vehicles taken off the road

Miles Per Year: The number of miles driven that would be offset by the system

Tanker Trucks of Gas: The equivalent number of tanker trucks full of gas avoided

Barrels of Oil: The number of barrels of oil that would have been necessary to produce the energy produced by the system

Trees Planted: The number of trees that would have to be planted for an equivalent reduction in CO2 emissions

Acres of US Forest: The number of acres of US forest that would have to be planted for an equivalent reduction in CO2 emissions

Railcars of Coal: The number of railcars full of coal that were avoided in terms of CO2 emissions

Pounds of Coal: The number of pounds of coal that were avoided in terms of CO2 emissions

User
User placeholders pull in information about the currently logged-in user (the one generating the proposal). For example, this allows you to populate the proposal with information about the salesperson who has been interacting with the client.


User First Name: The first name of the currently logged in user

User Last Name: The last name (surname) of the currently logged in user

User Title: The title of the currently logged in user

User E-mail: The email of the currently logged in user

User Phone No: The phone number of the currently logged in user

Organization Address: The address of your company/organization

Organization Name: The name of your company/organization

 