Plan Sets

Table of Contents
Overview
Requirements
Accessing the Tool
Intake Form
Requesting a Plan Set
 
Overview
Aurora has now integrated your design tool, CAD, and site survey data into one platform, allowing you to request permit-ready plan sets for your sold designs without leaving the platform. 
You can streamline and standardize your data-collection process through an automated online tool that collects and stores site data for plan set design, engineering, permitting, and other post-sale needs. Once the data is collected, you can submit a request for a solar permitting plan set package directly from Aurora.
 
Who Is Eligible to Use Aurora's Plan Sets?
Plan Sets is an add-on service available to all residential solar companies in the US.  If you are interested in adding Plan Sets to your Aurora account plan, please reach out to your Customer Success Manager or our Support team at support@aurorasolar.com.
 
Requirements


Account Configuration Requirements

Be sure that your account if fully configured with at least the minimum requirements for success using Plan Sets.



3D Site Model In Aurora  

Submitted 3D site model is assumed to be accurate and buildable
Note: If you are using Aurora AI to generate your designs in Sales Mode, we recommend that you request an expert design after the deal has been sold to be used for the final engineering design and Plan Set OR have your in-house designers re-create the site model using Aurora's SmartRoof tool.



Aerial imagery of the building in Aurora

If the building is new construction not present in imagery, they should have uploaded a blueprint to model the roof
Make sure to include site plan(s) as attachment in the request



PV system with panels, inverters, DC optimizers (as applicable) and BOS components

Submitted system layout will be assumed to be accurate and buildable
BOS components may include:

Combiner boxes
Load centers
Disconnects
Service Panels
Meters


BOS components should be placed in 3D Site Model so they are present in the DXF and location (or proposed location) can be confirmed with site photos




Accessing the Tool
Select a Project
From the Project Dashboard, select a project that has been designed and sold on which the site survey will be performed. 
Note: It is required for the project to have a non-AI generated design.  
 
Start Plan Set Intake Form
On the Project Overview, click Start Form.

 
Intake Form
Assign the intake form
1. Select the design that was sold from the drop-down menu. It will default to the most recently edited design if nothing is chosen.
2. OPTIONAL -  Type in an alternative email address to assign a different person to fill out the form. 
Note: The person assigned will need an Aurora log-in for the email to populate in this field. Make sure they are added as a user.
3. Click Create form.
4. Once assigned, the user will receive a link via email to bring them directly into the Intake Form for that design.
 
Fill Out Form
1. Fill out the form. Some of the project information will be automatically populated into the Intake Form based on the design. Fill out any remaining fields. Fields will be auto-saved. Click Next to move to the next section. 

Note: Although not every field is required, try to include as much information as possible. We understand that processes and minimum requirements vary across users, so we made this form broad and inclusive, but unpopulated fields won't restrict you from completing the survey if you don't need them.
 
Provide Link to Photos
1. Upload any photos taken during the site survey or other related documents

 
Review Form

 Review that all the information has been filled out and photos are correctly linked.
 Print the preview as a PDF. 
 You have reached the end of the intake form.  

 
Requesting a Plan Set
Submit Form
1. Click on Request plan set to submit a request.

Note: Once the request has been submitted the intake form will not allow any changes until the plan set has been generated. If you require quick support or a revision to something already submitted, please reach out to permitting@aurorasolar.com to get direct support from the design team.
 
Plan Set Request tracking
Track progress from the Project Overview page.

The Plan Set package will be available for download 24h after the request is submitted. You will also receive an email notification with the plan set package PDF.

If there is any missing information or the request is outside the scope of work, there will be a notification on the Project Overview page. Click to Learn More. 

If information is missing, edit the intake form to include any additional info before submitting the request again. 

 
 
 
 