Salesforce Integration Set Up Instructions (Legacy Aurora)

 
(Looking for the Zoho Setup?) 

Aurora clients can now import their lead’s (i.e. prospective customer's) information from Salesforce into Aurora. This integration will allow an Aurora client to do the following:

Launch from Salesforce: select a lead in Salesforce, and click a button that will send the lead information to Aurora.
With this integration Aurora will only import the following fields: First Name, Last Name, Full Address (Street, City, State, PostalCode, Country), Phone, and Email of leads you explicitly asked to import.

Note: If you would like more import and export functionality you will need to have an Enterprise account, please email support@aurorasolar.com for more information.



How to set-up (estimated to take 45 min to complete): 
  Before you begin: 
Make sure you have system administrator privileges in both Aurora and Salesforce. 
Part I: Create Aurora App in Salesforce
Step 1: Open Setup Page
Click “Setup” from upper right corner.
 
Step 2: Open “App Manager” page.
Search for “apps” in Quick Find box -> Click App Manager under Apps.
 
Step 3: Create a “New Connected App”
Click New Connected App button.
 
Step 4: Set up New Connected App
Fill out required fields under Basic Information and API(Enable OAuth Settings) sections.


Enter “Aurora Solar” for "Connected App Name".


Enter“Aurora_Solar” for “API Name”.


Enter“support@aurorasolar.com” for “Contact Email”.


Check Enable OAuth Settings under API(Enable OAuth Settings).


Enter “https://app.aurorasolar.com/settings/integrations” for “Callback URL”. 


Choose Access and manage your data (api) and Perform requests on your behalf at any time (refresh_token, offline_access) under Available OAuth Scopes and add them to Selected OAuth Scopes.

Click Save button.

 
Step 5: Go to “Object Manager” page.
Search for “object manager” in Quick Find box -> Click Object Manager under Objects and Fields.
 
Step 6: Go to Lead page
Click “Lead’ from the list.
 
Step 7: Create a new link
Click Buttons, Links, and Actions -> Click New Button or Link
 
Step 8: Configure custom link
Fill out required fields under Custom Button or Link Edit. It is CRUCIAL that this information be directly copied and pasted (without quotation marks) into the appropriate sections. On Mac: hit command(⌘) + c to copy and command (⌘) + v to paste. On PC: hit Ctrl +c to copy and Ctrl + v to paste. Please avoid entering the URL manually. 


Enter “Design in Aurora” for “Label”.
Enter “Design_in_Aurora” for “Name”.
Choose a “Detail Page Link” for “Display Type”.
Choose a “Behavior”

Choose “URL” for “Content Source”.
Enter https://app.aurorasolar.com/webhook/lead-import?type=salesforce&lead_id={!Lead.Id} for url.

Click Save button.


 
Step 9: Go to “Page Layouts”
Click “Page Layout” button from the menu on the right.
 
Step 10: Go to “Lead Layout”
Click “Lead Layout” from “Page Layouts”
 
Step 11: Add Link to Lead Page
Drag Design In Aurora from Custom Link” menu at the top to Custom Links section.
 
Step 12: Complete Setup
Now you can view the link under Detail tab in lead page.


Part II: Retrieve Consumer Secret and Consumer ID from Salesforce

 
Step 1: Go to Setup page.
Click Setup button from upper right corner -> Search for "Apps" from Quick Find search box -> Click App Manager from search result

Step 2: Find your App
Find your App from the list (in this case “Aurora Solar”) -> Click down arrow -> Click View button
 
Step 3: Reveal your Consumer Secret
Click Click to reveal to reveal your Consumer Secret -> Have this page open
 
Step 4: Open Integration page in Aurora App
Open a new tab or window from your browser -> Navigate to Aurora App -> Go to Setting page -> Integrations
 
Step 5: Configure your integration (Please notice that you need tenant administrator privilege to configure the integration)
Click Salesforce button under CRM Lead Import -> Input Consumer Key for "Client ID" field that you obtained earlier from salesforce connected app -> Click Connect to Salesforce
 
Step 6: Consent in Salesforce
Click Allow button
 
Step 7: Input your Consumer Secret
Enter the “Consumer Secret” you obtained from salesforce for “Client Secret” field -> Click Complete Setup
 
Step 8: Complete setup
A modal will show up indicating that the setup was successful. 

Phew you're done! Please contact support@aurorasolar.com if you need further assistance! 