AHJ Identification and Database

Overview
When a new project is created, Aurora uses the project’s address to identify the Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ) for the project location and makes that information available on the Project Overview page. 
Aurora also incorporates an AHJ Database that includes AHJ high-level general requirements and enables you to store and modify requirements as you learn them from building departments across the country, tracking those requirements from the AHJ and Utility preferences in real time. 
* This feature is available for US Projects only. 
How to access the AHJ Database
1. From the Project Overview in the Dashboard
Click on the name of the Authority Having Jurisdiction to access the database.
2. From the Customer profile
Click on View Jurisdiction to access the database. 

If a different AHJ is needed, for example, if building type means it is governed by a different AHJ, you can assign a different AHJ by clicking on the name of the AHJ and searching or scrolling to the desired AHJ. 
3. From the Database menu. 
The AHJ Database can also be accessed within the database section of Aurora where you can easily search through the entire AHJ database list.
How to edit the AHJ Database
There are seven content tabs available in the database.
General Requirements
Aurora will provide and manage a high-level data set of AHJ requirements in the General Requirements tab. 
This tab includes critical information for the plan set design and post-sales process, like the electric, building, and fire codes or the max and min temperatures or wind codes for the project. 
Additional Tenant Managed Tabs
The Permitting, Design, Electrical, Structural, Energy Storage Systems, and Ground Mounts tabs contain additional information for the design and engineering teams that is manually entered and updated by the tenant admins. These fields are read-only for non-admin tenants.
These tabs contain easily referenceable information like the system size limit, so your design team knows what the max size for the project is within that jurisdiction, and other information about the permitting process like the number of copies required or the online submittal link, which allows direct access to the site from Aurora.
