Generate and Send a Web Proposal in Sales Mode


 
Generating and Sending a Web Proposal
When you're ready to share your proposal with your customer, click “Share” from the Sales Mode drop down menu. You can access this menu from almost any page in Sales Mode.

 
Click share, and Aurora generates a unique URL for each design that you create in Sales Mode. Enter the homeowner’s email address and click Send to email them a link to their dynamic Web Proposal. You can also copy the link, open the link in a new browser tab, or refresh the link.
 

When a customer opens this web proposal, it will walk them through some of the benefits of going solar, as well as an overview of the project design.
Your account admins can customize the Sales Mode presentation, or add custom pages about your company and value proposition to your Sales Mode presentation which can also be included in the web proposal.
 
Viewing the Web Proposal
With the Web Proposal link open on your customers device, they will be able to see a high level overview of the system size, anticipated energy production per year, as well as the anticipated energy offset based on their current energy usage.
 
You can pan around, zoom in, and see what the home will look like with solar. You can also click on the shading analysis tools to see the path of the sun over their property over the course of the year without making any changes to the proposed design.
 
Continuing on through the Web Proposal, your customer will be able to see the estimated savings over time, compare their bills over the years, and review proposal details including the selected Financing Option.
 
Finally, at the bottom of the page, your customer will see your contact information and can request a follow up. If a follow-up is requested, the sales rep will receive an email notification.

 
Tracking Web Proposal Activity
Once sent, you will be able to track the homeowner’s activity in Sales Mode, including the date and time of:

Sent – when the link was first sent to the homeowner
Expiration – 60 days after the link was sent
Last viewed – when the homeowner most recently viewed the link
Follow-up requested – if a homeowner requested a follow-up in the Web Proposal


You are also able to see the status of the Web Proposal from the Project Index and Project Overview pages.

 
Troubleshooting
Always take a look at the Web Proposal before sending it to be viewed by anyone else. If your design has not finished a Performance Simulation you may see an error that "this proposal is unavailable." Go back to the Design section of your project and click Recalculate (or Simulate in Design Mode) to get an updated power estimate production. You can then generate a new Web Proposal.
 
If you make changes to the Sales Mode proposal after creating a Web Proposal, such as changing the design or the selected financing option, you may see an error message "details are out of date." You can generate a new web proposal with the Share button.
 
Also note that Web Proposal links expire after 60 days. You can always generate a new link with the Share button in Sales Mode.
 

 