1/30/2023 - Release Notes




Sales Mode: Inverter Line Item
Inverters (micro or string) are now shown as a line item on the Financing page in Sales Mode and the Web Proposal.


Contract Manager: Document Visibility by State
Admins can restrict access to specific document templates by selecting the state(s) in which the template is visible. For projects within the selected state(s), the template will surface as the top choice on the dropdown menu in Contract Manager. For projects outside of the selected state(s), the template will not be visible to the sales rep.


Title Page in Print Proposal
The downloadable Print Proposal in Sales Mode now includes a title page with the company’s logo and a custom image (the same image as displayed on the Overview page).


CAD Screenshot in Print Proposal
The downloadable Print Proposal now includes a screenshot of the 3D design following the title page. Note that this will only show up for newly created designs (since this morning) and the design needs to be saved at least once for it to populate. Screenshots will be taken from when the design was most recently saved – typically after clicking "Finalize".


Sales Mode: Proposal Editor
Sales reps are now able to show or hide certain pages for each design to better tailor their proposal to each homeowner – limited to custom pages, the Storage page, and the Environmental Impact page.


Production & Consumption – Copy Monthly Values
Users can easily copy monthly values directly from the production vs. consumption chart in Design Mode.


Utility Bill Savings – Copy Monthly Values
Users can easily copy monthly values directly from the utility bill savings chart in Design Mode.


Lead Capture AI: Text & Image Customization
New customizations for Lead Capture AI enable businesses to provide a more consistent brand experience by setting their own text and images on select pages for homeowners.


Draw Fire Pathways
Fire Access Pathways are required for most photovoltaic projects in the United States. Aurora’s Draw Fire Pathways feature allows you to easily draw fire pathways that meet the code requirements of your design’s jurisdiction.


