New Aurora Account Configuration Guide

This article provides an overview of the areas you’ll need to configure within your Aurora account to ensure that everything is preset and at your fingertips before you create a project.  Click on the links below to access content-specific help articles that will guide you through your account set up. 
 
Please note that you must be an Administrator to configure your account.  
*Some products and services mentioned below are only available as add-ons. If you are interested in adding Aurora AI, Contract Manager, or Plan Sets to your Aurora account plan, please reach out to your Customer Success Manager or support@aurorasolar.com.
 
General Company Info & Settings
Update your basic company information and general account settings. 

General Settings
Creating Custom Project Statuses
Adding your Logo
Adding Users

 
Pricing
Establish your starting cost for all projects in your account and then create adders and discounts to fine tune your pricing.

General Base Pricing
Adders & Discounts

 
Financing Products
Build Custom Financing Products in your Database to model in Aurora. A direct financing integration is currently available in Aurora with Mosaic as well. 

Modeling Custom Financing Products
Aurora Financing Integrations

 
Enabling Solar Components
Enable the solar components that you plan to offer for quick and easy access when designing.

Modules 
Inverters
DC Optimizers
Batteries

 
Creating Jurisdiction Setbacks
Establish unique setback regulations for the locations where you do business.

Creating State or Local Setback Regulations

 
Application Settings 
Review the default application settings and make changes as necessary.  You can also add custom pages to your Sales Mode workflow. 

Sales Mode Design Settings 
Financing Settings
Utility and Tax Rate Settings
Performance Simulation Settings 

 
Sales Mode Customization 
Sales Mode Customization features allow Aurora users to customize their sales experience by adding custom pages, videos, and more to Aurora's Sales Mode.

Add custom pages in Sales Mode
Add custom pages to your Web Proposal

 
Sales Agreements with Contract Manager
*Contract Manager is an add-on product only available with a custom contract.
Create your Document Templates with the help of this step by step guide. 

What is Contract Manager & Who is Eligible
What you'll need
Create a new Template
Merge Fields - Options & Definitions

 
Plan Sets Account Configuration Requirements
*Plan Sets is an add-on service with New Aurora
To ensure you are set up for success when submitting Plan Sets, be sure that you've completed the items below in your Aurora account:

Enable Solar Components including applicable BOS Components 
Establish and Enable State or Local Setback Regulations

 
 
 