4. Create a Financing Option and Generate a Sales Proposal

You can simulate almost any type of financial product in Aurora, including cash deals, loans, PPAs and lease products. We will go through a simple cash deal. Proposals for a project are filled in automatically from a Proposal Template. Aurora will provide you with a number of templates to start off with, and you can always create your own to better suit your clients.
         
Financial analysis


Go to Pricing on the sidebar on the left and switch the pricing mode from 'Line Items' to 'Cost/Watt'. 

Enter a cost per watt of $4.

Navigate to Financings on the design sidebar and click Add Financing. Input the following parameters:


Template: Aurora Sample Cash Financing

Electricity Rates: NEM (TOU)

Post Solar Utility: Sample Commercial Utility Rate

Post Solar Utility Rate: Sample Commercial Utility Rate


Set 'Utility Rate Escalation' to 4%. 

When done click on Run Analysis to perform your financial analysis.


Creating a proposal

Navigate to the Documents section from the design sidebar and click New Proposal.

Give your proposal a name, and select Aurora Sample Portrait Proposal and the financing you just created.
Click Create.


As you scroll down your proposal you will notice that it automatically populate charts, tables, and 3D visualizations from the project you have just created.
Changing a proposal
Proposals are read-only, and to truly make changes to a proposal, you need to edit the Proposal Template that it was generated from and recreate your proposal. However, there are small customizations you can make to each proposal.

Navigate to the 3D rendering on the second page and scroll on it to change the zoom of the image.
Click and drag the 3D model to change the camera angle.
Right click on the 3D model to view additional display options. Check Ground Plane to overlay the satellite imagery.

Exporting to PDF
Your browser can convert Aurora proposals to PDF through its print dialog.

Click on the Print button in the top right corner.
In the print dialog, choose 'Save as PDF' where it asks you to choose a printer.

Next: Generating bankable shade reports