How to add custom inverters to your account


Table of Contents




Inverter Overview
Input
Output
Mechanical
Temperature
Cost
Storage
 
Navigate to the "Add Inverter" tab by selecting "Database", then click "Inverters", then select "Add Inverters". Once you have selected "Add Inverters" follow the instructions below to create a custom Inverter in your Database. 
 

List of Fields: 
The fields starred (*) are required in order for the inverter to work in Aurora. Use information under Standard Test Conditions (STC) Section in your specification sheet: 
 
Inverter Overview
Name*

Inverter name

Manufacturer

 Add the manufacturer's name here. If the name of the Manufacturer does not stick to the field, you will need to add it to the Manufacturer list in the database. (link article) 

Type

 Add the inverter typology here: Transformer, Transformerless, or Transformer HF

Rated Power*

 Add the rated output power in Watts here. May be listed as AC Output Power. May be in Volts, Amps, or kVA and will need to be converted to Watts if so.  

Max Efficiency*

Add the efficiency here. This is the ratio of usable AC output power to the sum of the DC input power and any AC input power. Typical grid-tied inverter efficiencies exceed 95% under most operating conditions. (either Max, European, or CEC must be entered)

European Efficiency*

 Add the efficiency rated by the European standards here (either Max, European, or CEC must be entered)

CEC Efficiency*

Add the efficiency provided by the California Energy Commission (CEC) here (either Max, European, or CEC must be entered)

Is Micro-Inverter?

Check if component is micro-inverter

Has Global MPPT?

Check if component has global MPPT (this is if the MPPT range covers a significant amount of the allowed input power for the inverter)

Description

Brief description of your module

Supported DC Devices*

 Choose if component is solar, storage, or both solar and storage 

 
Input
Max. Input Power*

Add the maximum allowable wattage on the DC side of the solar PV inverter. For all SunGrow inverters, Max Input Power = Rated Output Power * 1.2

Min. Input Voltage*

Add the minimum allowable voltage on the DC side of the solar PV inverter

Max. Input Voltage*

Add the maximum allowable voltage on the DC side of the solar PV inverter

Min. MPPT Voltage*

Add the minimum MPPT (Maximum Power Point Tracking) voltage here (not required for storage or SolarEdge inverters)

Max. MPPT Voltage*

Add the maximum MPPT (Maximum Power Point Tracking) voltage here (not required for storage or SolarEdge inverters)

Max. Usable Input Current*

Add the maximum input current in Amps here. This is the current which flows through the DC side of the solar PV inverter. Also called maximum short circuit current.

Num. DC Inputs*

Add total number of DC inputs the inverter has here. If not listed, multiply the number of MPPTs by the number of strings per MPPTs. (For storage inverters this value needs to be 1). 

Num. MPPTs*

Add the number of MPPTs (Maximum Power Point Tracking) here (for storage inverters this value needs to be 1)

 
Output
Num. Phases*:

Add either single or third phase here (for split-phase and 2/3 phase select single phase)

Nominal Output Voltage*:

Add the inverter output voltage here

 
Mechanical
Length*

This is the length of the inverter
Must be in Millimeters (mm). If the information is given in inches (in), please convert it to millimeters using this formula: 1mm = 0.0393701 in

Width*

This is the width of the inverter
Must be in Millimeters (mm). If the information is given in inches (in), please convert it to millimeters using this formula: 1mm = 0.0393701 in

Height*

This is the height of the inverter
Must be in Millimeters (mm). If the information is given in inches (in), please convert it to millimeters using this formula: 1mm = 0.0393701 in

Weight*

This is the weight of the inverter

The data must be in kilograms (kg). If the information is given in pounds (lbs), please convert it to kilograms using this formula: 1kg=2.20462lbs


 
Temperature
Operating Temperature, Minimum*

The value must be in Celcius (°C)
The operating temperature range is usually from -40°C to 85°C with some variability on the max value.
The minimum operating temperature of an inverter represents the lowest temperature for optimal performance. 

Operating Temperature, Maximum*

The value must be in Celcius (°C)
The operating temperature range is usually from -40°C to 85°C with some variability on the max value.
The maximum operating temperature of an inverter represents the highest temperature for optimal performance. 

 
Cost
Supplier

Add the name of the supplier here

Cost

Add the cost of inverter here

 
Storage 
(only needed if either "Storage or Solar" or "Storage" is selected in "Type")
Short Duration Rated Power*

Add the short-duration rated power, also known as surge power, here. If more than one surge value is given, use the shortest duration. If this is not listed, use the backup rated power.

Backup Rated Power*

Add the continuous backup power rating here

Backup Short Duration Rated Power*

Add backup storage duration rated power here. If a different figure isn't listed, use the number for short-duration rated power.

AC Charging Rate

Add the AC Charging rate here (usually the same as AC discharging rate)

AC Discharging Rate

Add the AC Dishcarging rate here (usually the same as AC charging rate)

Round Trip Efficiency*

Add the total power loss from putting energy into and drawing energy from the battery here. If separate round trip efficiency is not listed, use the following formula: (Inverter Max Efficiency)^2 *100

Minimum Attached Battery Capacity

Add how many batteries need to be attached to the inverter here

Maximum Attached Battery Capacity

Add how many batteries can you attach to the inverter here

Minimum Attached Battery Voltage*

Add the minimum voltage that can be attached to the inverter here

Maximum Attached Battery Voltage*

Add the maximum voltage that can be attached to the inverter here



