Tables and Charts

Aurora has several pre-built tables and charts that display your customer's data in an easy to read format. 

Tables
Charts
How to add a chart or table to your proposal 
Chart and Table settings

Tables

The Cashflow Table will reflect the annual and cumulative cashflows in and out as the customer owns their solar system.



The BOM Table will list the components used in the system design.



The Monthly Savings Table reflects the year 1 monthly production and consumption values, the year 1 monthly electricity bill pre- and post-solar, as well as any utility bill savings and/or credits.


 
Charts

The Annual Cashflow chart will reflect the yearly cashflows in and out as the customer owns their solar system.



The Cumulative Cashflow chart will reflect the net cashflows in and out as they accumulate over the life of the solar system. These are nominal values and will not be reduced using the discount rate. 



The Production & Consumption chart reflects the year 1 monthly production and consumption values.



The Electricity Bill chart reflects the year 1 monthly electricity bill pre- and post-solar. If your customer's energy is 100% offset, the post-solar bill may reflect a monthly charge that is non-by-passable.



The Electricity Mix chart shows the portion of the customer's usage that is being generated by their solar system and the portion that is being supplied by the utility grid.



The Lifetime Bill Comparison chart compares the customer's annual utility bills over the lifetime of the solar system. This will take into account the electricity rate escalation and system degradation.


How to add a Chart or Table to your proposal
On the proposal template toolbar, the last two icons are your Chart and Table icons respectively. 

 
Click on the table or chart icon, and select the table or chart wanted from the drop-down like so: 

 
Table and Chart Settings 
The settings depend on the table or chart selected. The two main settings are Financing and Colors. 
The table/chart must be selected in order for the Settings icon to appear: 

To change the settings of your chart, please watch the video below: 
