Creating a Fill Zone

You can place modules on your roof by taking advantage of Aurora's Fill Zone tool.
We strongly recommend that you create a Fill Zone for commercial system design. Watch the video below to learn more about Aurora's Fill Zone tool.

A Fill Zone is a set of predefined areas wherein all modules, inverters and other BOS components have the same characteristics. A Fill Zone area is dynamic, meaning that if an area's space is adjusted, the number of modules, inverters, stringing and are automatically adjusted to maximize the number of modules that fit in the specified area.
There are two ways to create a Fill Zone:
Filling An Entire Roof Face

Click Insert Panels in the left toolbar and select Fill Zone (keyboard shortcut Z ).
Move your cursor over to the roof area. Double-click to select the entire roof area.


Drawing a Polygon

Click Insert Panels in the left toolbar and select Fill Zone (Z).
Move your cursor over to your roof area. Click to place nodes on the corners of the polygon shape you wish to draw. When completing your Fill Zone, move your cursor back to the original node and click to close the polygon or press the 'Enter' key.


Placing Panels

Once you’ve created your Fill Zone a menu will appear on the right.
Select your module type, orientation, fill mode, tilt, and any additional options such as rotation or panel spacing.

Click the Place Panels button on the bottom of the menu. Aurora will automatically populate fill the zone with panels based on your selected preferences while avoiding obstructions you’ve placed on the roof.


Placing Inverters, Power Optimizers, and Stringing

Click on electrical at the top of the right menu to add inverters or DC optimizers.
Click the Place Electrical button and Aurora will automatically add the components and string your system.


Adjusting the Fill Zone
If you need to adjust your Fill Zone after creating your system design:

Click and drag on any node of the highlighted Fill Zone.
Once you’ve adjusted the Fill Zone click the Place Panels button.
Click the Place Electrical button.

