User Management: Advanced Roles

Advanced Roles in Aurora allows admin users to create up to four custom roles within the Aurora app.
Note: Advanced Roles is available as an add-on to Custom Plans. To get access to Advanced Roles, reach out to your Customer Success Manager or Engagement Manager.

In this article, we’ll cover:

Creating and Editing Advanced Roles
Frequently Asked Questions

Creating and Editing Advanced Roles
Available under the Settings page in the Aurora application, navigate to the “Roles” tab to create, manage, and delete Roles in Aurora. 

Up to four Advanced Roles may be created. To create a new Advanced Role, follow these steps:
1. Click “Create” on the Settings > Roles page
2. Enter a Role name
3. Configure permissions:


All projects OR Assigned projects only. Manage visibility and access to projects. 

For tenants with Teams, admins can configure the role to view all team-enabled projects OR assigned projects only. To learn more about Teams, see here.



Create projects. This setting controls the ability to create new projects in Aurora. When turned off, this setting restricts users from creating new projects.

Edit pricing. This setting controls the ability to adjust pricing for projects. When turned off, this setting restricts users from adjusting pricing by creating a read only experience in both Sales Mode and Design Mode. Fields that cannot be edited include: price per watt, flat price, incentives, adders, and discounts

Access Design Mode. This setting controls access to designs in Design Mode. When turned off, this setting hides Design Mode from users, and users can only view designs within Sales Mode.


Edit site model. For roles with access to Design Mode, this setting enables admins to restrict users from editing the site model within Design Mode.



4. Click “Save.”
After you’ve created an Advanced Role, you can Edit or Delete the role from the Roles page. You can only delete an Advanced Role when no user is assigned to that role.
 
 
FAQ
Is Advanced Roles supported by the API?Yes, Advanced Roles is supported by the Sync API; users must be on version 2022.09 or later of the API to access API support for Advanced Roles.
Please review the Users API documentation to learn more.
 
What if I use Secure Mode?
Secure Mode is a setting supported for Limited Team Member roles; when enabled, Secure Mode restricts Limited Team Members from editing site models. In order to activate Secure Mode for Limited Team Members, you must turn on the setting from the Roles page under Limited Team Member.

While Secure Mode still applies to the standard role of Limited Team Members, we recommend configuring a new Advanced Role that restricts site modeling moving forward.
 
If I update the permissions on an Advanced Role, will all of the users assigned to that role automatically receive the updated permissions?
Yes. When you update the access and permissions settings for an Advanced Role, simply save and refresh your browser to apply the new permissions.