Using the Consumption Portal

There are three options: Estimate (US Only), Manual Input (for both US and International), and Upload Data. 


The first option, Estimate (US Only), is a quick way to get an idea of what a client’s consumption patterns look like and typical consumption patterns in the area. Please note this option is only available in the United States, and should based on a few months of data. The more bill values that are inputted will help provide the most accurate estimate.


The second option, Manual Input, allows you to have a more precise calculation of the homeowners energy consumption pattern and bills. Please note that you need to have 12 months worth of data to achieve best results with this option. This is available for all users in the US and internationally.


The third option, Upload Data, allows you to upload a CSV or Green Button Data XML file to input a consumption profile. Click here for more instructions on how to enter Green Button data. 


Uploading data to allows you to view detailed information about the consumer’s utility consumption and time of use that can be found on many utility company websites. You can choose to upload data via an .xml or .csv file format as opposed to inputting bill values to the Consumption portal. Commercial sites with Demand Charges will need to be uploaded with Green Button Data so Aurora can accurately calculate the rate and consumption. 
To upload your Green Button Data into Aurora, follow the steps below:
To upload your Green Button Data into Aurora, follow the steps below:


Go to the Consumption tab in the left toolbar, then select Upload Data.

Choose your customer’s Utility Provider, Utility Rate, and the Rate Effective Period.


Before uploading, please ensure that you have obtained at least 1 year’s worth of timely interval data.


There are different file formats to select from:
The Green Button option allows you to upload a green button style xml file from any utility company or service that provides them.
For PG&E, you can upload a CSV file that is downloadable from the account page of your customer’s Pacific Gas, and Electric web portal.
If you do not have data for these options, but you have the energy usage in kilowatt hours for each hour of the year, you can Download a CSV Template Aurora has created for you to use. When selecting this option:



First download the Hourly Interval Template.
Open this up from your downloads on your computer.
Input the data information into a spreadsheet software such as Excel or Numbers, then save or export the file as a CSV format. Once you upload your file from a selection above, this will allow you to estimate your customer’s consumption load profile.

If you'd like to learn more about Green Button Data, check out our blog post: The Value of Green Button Data.
If you are interested in learning more about the hourly load profile, see our blog post entitled How to Estimate a Homeowner's Energy Load Profile.
 