Adding Battery Storage in Sales Mode

The Storage page in Sales Mode allows you to add one or multiple batteries to your design and model for backup power or self-consumption.
 

 
Table of Contents:

Adding Battery Storage in Sales Mode
Calculating Backup Power
Calculating Self-Consumption
Pricing Batteries in Sales Mode
Selecting Battery Options

Adding Battery Storage in Sales Mode
Within Sales Mode, select the desired battery model from the dropdown and enter the quantity. Aurora will then calculate the:


Capacity (kWh): total energy stored in the battery or batteries

Output (kW): the maximum kW that can be discharged continuously

Cost ($): total cost of the battery or batteries


 
Calculating Backup Power
With the Operating Mode set to Backup, this assumes that their batteries will be kept charged for emergency scenarios only. Aurora will calculate the backup duration (in days) for:


Essentials: Backup electrical fixtures and select outlets

Appliances: Backup small appliances and essentials

Whole Home: Backup major appliances and essentials

These numbers will automatically recalculate when adding or removing batteries. For more information on how these are calculated, see Backup Duration – Calculations.

 
Calculating Self-Consumption
With the Operating Mode set to Self-Consumption, this assumes that the homeowner will be consuming energy from their battery and recharging it with excess energy from their solar system. Aurora will calculate the homeowners’ estimated monthly utility bills for:

Solar only 

Solar + battery 

 
You can then click on the graph for each month to see the estimated utility bills throughout different times of the year.
 
Note: These bill estimations do not factor in the system cost or financing. You will need to navigate to the Bill Comparison page in Sales Mode to view the final bill estimations.

To calculate self-consumption, Aurora models battery charge and drain based on:

The homeowner’s energy consumption information
The production of the system at a given hour of the day
The specifications of the battery being used

 
See the flowchart below for more detail:

 
Pricing Batteries in Sales Mode

Batteries are added as a line item on the Financing page in Sales Mode, using the price for that model as specified by the account admin.

Note: To apply a discount for multiple batteries, admins can configure pricing for each additional battery (see below). 
 
Selecting Battery Options
In order for a battery model to appear in Sales Mode, it will need to be pre-selected by an account admin in the Database.
Within the Database, make sure that Restrict generation components is turned on. Search for the battery model you would like to add, then toggle it on to make it available in Sales Mode.  

The price for each battery in the Database will be set to $0 by default. To change the price of a specific battery, first select the model, then click Edit, enter in the appropriate price, and click Save.
 
To apply a different price for multiple batteries, click Add, then enter in the price for the additional battery or batteries. 
