How to add custom modules to your account

Table of Contents
Module Overview
Electrical
Temperature
Mechanical
Miscellaneous
Cost
 
Navigate to the "Add Module" tab by selecting "Database", then click "Modules", then select "Add Modules". Once you have selected "Add Modules" follow the instructions below to create a custom Module in your Database. 
 

 
List of Fields: 
The fields starred (*) are required in order for the module to work in Aurora. Use information under Standard Test Conditions (STC) Section in your specification sheet: 
 
Module Overview
Name* 

Model name

Manufacturer* 

 Add the manufacturer's name here. If the name of the Manufacturer does not stick to the field, you will need to add it to the Manufacturer list in the database. (link article) 

Type*

Aurora can model with either Monocrsytalline (Mono Si) or Polycrystalline (Poly Si) modules: 
Monocrystalline solar cells that are grown using a process (the Czochralski process) that produces a uniform crystal structure that is sliced to make solar cells. These tend to have better electrical properties. They also tend to have somewhat higher oxygen concentrations, which is important for LID.

Polycrystalline solar cells that are produced by some form of vapor deposition, which grows silicon onto a substrate. These will have many crystalline sections, which show up as different reflective edges in a solar cell. These are less efficient at producing electricity compared to an equivalently-sized monocrystalline cell, but are cheaper and faster to produce. They also have less oxygen present in the material.


Cell Quantity*

 In this field, input how many full cells a given panel has. 
NOTE: For Half-Cut cells, divide the number of cells by 2 to get the number of full cells.

Efficiency*

The ratio of power-in (sunlight) to power-out (electricity produced by PV). Typical efficiency ranges from low single digits to just over 20%.
The rated efficiency of a PV Module is in relation to "peak sun", which strikes the earth's surface at around 1000 W/m^2. 

PSI Rating


Third-party rating system similar to the CEC but this no longer exists and typically will be left blank.


Submodule Simulation

Not supported for custom modules

Additional Information - Submodule (Cell String)-Level Simulation


Description

Brief description of your module

Electrical
Pmax(STC)*

 Maximum Power Point (Measured in Watts (Volts x Amps)

The combination of volts and amps that creates the highest wattage.

If you lower the current and increase the voltage, you move away from the maximum power point.



When you use a Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT) charge controller or inverter, Pmax is the point where the MPPT electronics tries to keep the volts and amps at to maximize the overall power output.

The wattage that a solar panel is listed as is the Pmax, where Pmax = Vmp x Imp (Imp and Vmp defined below).



Tolerance Pmax, STC + and -*

The range that a module can deviate from its STC-rated power.

Common ranges to see are “+/-3%”, or “+5 to -0%

For example, a 300 watt module with a “+/-5%” power tolerance could produce a measured output of 285 to 315 watts within its warranty guidelines.



Also note that tolerance may also be expressed as a value in Watts (W).

For example, a module with a tolerance of “-0/+5” watts means that a 300 watt module could produce a measured output of 300 to 305 watts.
If the tolerance is expressed in watts, you must convert it to a percentage of pMax. In the example above a 5 watt tolerance on a 300 watt module would be calculated as (5 ÷ 300) x 100 for a rating of 1.67%.



Voc (STC)*

Open Circuit Voltage 
This value is in Volts

VOC is the maximum voltage output from a solar cell occurring at the point where current is zero, and where voltage is at its highest. 

This occurs when the module is not connected to a load. VOC is the number to use when determining how many solar panels you can wire into the inverter being used in the project.



Isc (STC)*

Short Circuit Current
The maximum current that can be produced by a module under the conditions of a circuit with no resistance, or a short circuit between the positive and negative connections.
Measured in Amps

Vmp(STC)*

Maximum Power Voltage

The voltage when the power output is the greatest. Vmp is the actual voltage you expect to measure when it is connected to the MPPT of your solar equipment.

Also referred to as Vmpp


Measured in Volts

Imp(STC)*

Maximum Power Point Current

The Current (Amps) when the power output is the greatest. Imp is the actual amperage you expect to measure when it is connected to the MPPT of your solar equipment.

Also referred to as Impp


Measured in Amps

Max. DC System Voltage (US & EU)*

These values represent the rated max voltage of the entire system that the module is a part of. US values are determined by the UL, and EU values are determined by the IEC. UL & IEC values can be different.
Expected values here are 600V, 1000V, or 1500V

Sometimes a datasheet may have multiple ratings listed for the same rating agency. This means that each model number needs two versions entered into the component database 

(For example, this module's Max DC System Voltage listed as 1000V/15000V. This difference would be represented as: CS3U-400MS (1000V) & CS3U-400MS (1500V)) 


NOTE: You only need to include data for the US value or EU value. Including both is not necessary, though if you can include both if they are present on the manufacturer datasheet. 

Temperature
NOCT*

This is the temperature that all of the STC values on the datasheet we calculated at.  
Stands for Nominal Operating Cell Temperature
This value must be in Celsius
This value is sometimes labeled as NMOT

Temperature coefficient of Pmax*

The properties of a given module change as the panel becomes hotter (or colder). This coefficient shows how much the Pmax differs when the temperature changes. 

This value MUST be in %/°C or %/K 

If the value is given in W/C, divide the given number by the Pmax value


NOTE: The Temp Coeff. of Pmax will always be negative

Temperature coefficient of Voc*

The properties of a given module change as the panel becomes hotter (or colder). This coefficient shows how much the Open Circuit Voltage (Voc) differs when the temperature changes.  

This value MUST be in %/°C or %/K 

If the value is given in W/C, divide the given number by the Voc value


NOTE: The Temp Coeff. of Voc will always be negative

Temperature coefficient of Isc*

 Also known as the short circuit voltage temperature coefficient. This is what current you would see if you connected the positive and negative wires of a panel and left it in full sun.
This value must be in %/°C or %/°K

Operating Temperature, Minimum*

The value must be in Celcius (°C)
The operating temperature range is usually from -40°C to 85°C with some variability on the max value.
The minimum operating temperature of a panel represents the lowest temperature thefor optimal performance. If the panel

Operating Temperature, Maximum*

The value must be in Celcius (°C)
The operating temperature range is usually from -40°C to 85°C with some variability on the max value.

Mechanical
Length*

This is the length of a single panel. The length will be the longest side of the panel.
Must be in Millimeters (mm). If the information is given in inches (in), please convert it to millimeters using this formula: 1mm = 0.0393701 in

Width*

Must be in Millimeters (mm). If the information is given in inches (in), please convert it to millimeters using this formula: 1mm = 0.0393701 in

Height*

Must be in Millimeters (mm). If the information is given in inches (in), please convert it to millimeters using this formula: 1mm = 0.0393701 in

Weight*

This is the weight of a single panel. 
The data must be in kilograms (kg). If the information is given in pounds (lbs), please convert it to kilograms using this formula: 1kg=2.20462lbs

Static Load Wind

This is a measure of the back-side structural integrity of the module or the pressure that can be exerted on the module from the back before it may pull itself away from the roof face. 

Static Load Snow

This is a measure of the front side structural integrity of the module, such as the force that would be exerted on the module by snow.

Miscellaneous
Connector Type

Example: MC4

Work Warranty

This is the Manufacturer’s Warranty on the Workmanship of the module. 

Product Warranty

 As panels get older, they produce less power. This is a warranty guaranteeing that power degradation stays at a minimum value for a given number of years.

Frame Type

Material that the frame is made out of. 
Example: Anodized Aluminum

Frame Color

Color of the frame. 
Example: Silver

Backsheet Color

Color of the back sheet frame. 

Cost
Supplier

Name of the supplier. 

Cost

Cost of panel

Cost/Watt

 This is automatically calculated based on the cost 
