Pricing in New Aurora - Account Configuration

Pricing in New Aurora is set using either a starting base price per watt that applies to all projects or a flat price, and then you can use adders and discounts to fine tune your pricing.  
Please note that only account Administrators can make these changes. 
 
General Pricing
Your starting cost could include any fixed amount that will always be added to every project and will be in addition to your base price per watt or flat price.
 
Your pricing method will control how the system cost is calculated across all of your projects. 


Selecting Price per watt will only give users the option to calculate the system cost using price per watt.


Selecting Flat price will only give users the option to calculate the system cost by entering a flat price.


Selecting Price per watt or flat price will give users the option to choose between both pricing methods when calculating the system cost. Your default pricing method determines what will be used initially.


Your base price per watt is the price that will apply to all projects that you create (only if Price per watt is set as the default pricing method) but can be overridden on a project-by-project basis.

 
Turn the toggles on/off to adjust how you wish to display pricing and Bill Overview information in Sales Mode.

For more information on the Bill Overview Page in Sales Mode, check out this help article. 
 
Adders & Discounts
Adders and Discounts can be used to fine tune your pricing on a project-by-project basis and are configured at a global level in the Database.  Please note that you will always need to manually select adders and discounts from the Financing page in Sales Mode on a project by project basis.  

 
Admins can create and update new Adders and Discounts through the Database.  View and update all of your custom Adders and Discounts and click "New Adder / Discount" to create a new Adder or Discount.  Enter your adder/discount name, type, rate, and amount. 
 
Name

Create a name for your adder or discount that will be easily recognizable to choose from on a project by project basis.

Type


Adder - Adds to the total system cost

Discount - Subtracts from the total system cost

Rate


Flat - Static amount ($)

Per Panel - Amount added per panel in the design ($) 

Per Watt - Amount added per watt in the design ($) 

Percentage - Percentage of the total system cost (%)
Roof Area - Amount added per square foot of roof surface ($ / sq ft) 

Amount

Enter the dollar value for your adder or discount.  Please note that you must enter some value in this field.


Allow Inline Edit - When toggled on, allows sales reps to override the pre-set amount for the given adder/discount and manually adjust pricing on a project by project basis.
CBIs can be applied - When toggled on, the adder/discount will be included in the total system cost to which Cost Based Incentives (CBIs) like the Federal ITC Tax Credit will apply.
 
To edit previously configured Adders or Discounts, simply click on the item and make your changes.  There is no save button here so simply click away from the editing side drawer when you are done.

 
For more information on Adders and Discounts, check out this help article. 