Zoho Integration Set Up Instructions (Legacy Aurora)

 
 

Aurora clients can now import their lead’s (i.e. prospective customer's) information from Zoho into Aurora. Please note that this integration does not apply to the Bigin by Zoho product. 
This integration will allow an Aurora client to do the following:

Launch from Zoho: select a lead in Zoho, and click a button that will send the lead information to Aurora.
With this integration Aurora will only import the following fields: First Name, Last Name, Full Address (Street, City, State, PostalCode, Country), Phone, and Email of leads you explicitly asked to import.

Note: If you would like export functionality you will need to have an Enterprise account, please email support@aurorasolar.com for more information.



 
How to set-up (estimated to take 30 min to complete): 
  Before you begin: 
Make sure you have system administrator privileges in both Aurora and Zoho.
Step 1: Go to Client ID Set-up
Go to https://accounts.zoho.com/developerconsole -> Click Add Client ID

Step 2: Register Aurora Solar’s App
Fill out required fields.

Enter “Aurora Solar” for “Client Name”.
Enter “aurorasolar.com” for “Client Domain”.

Enter “https://app.aurorasolar.com/settings/integrations” for “Authorized redirect URIs”. 

Click Create button


Step 3: Remember your “Client Id” and “Client Secret”
Please mark down the “Client ID” and “Client Secret”, you will need these information later.

Step 4: Go to Zoho Setup page

Step 5: Go to customization Modules and Fields page
Go to Home Page -> Click Setup button from top right corner -> Click Modules and Fields under CUSTOMIZATION

Step 6:  Go to Leads Module
Click Leads from the list.

Step 7: Create a button
Click Create Your First Button under Links and Buttons section.

Step 8: Configure Button
Fill out required fields. 
It is CRUCIAL that this information be directly copied and pasted (without quotation marks) into the appropriate sections. On Mac: hit command(⌘) + c to copy and command (⌘) + v to paste. On PC: hit Ctrl +c to copy and Ctrl + v to paste. Please avoid entering the URL manually. 


Enter “Design in Aurora” for “What would you like to name the button?”
Choose a view for the button from “Where would you like to place the button?”.
Choose “Invoke a URL” for “What action would you like the button to perform?”.
Enter https://app.aurorasolar.com/webhook/lead-import?type=zoho&lead_id=${Leads.Lead Id} for Construct Your URL. 
Choose “New Tab” for “Where do you want to show the content of the button action?”.
Click “Save”.


Step 9: Open Integration in Aurora
Aurora App -> Settings > Integrations

Step 10: Configure the Integration
Retrieve the Client ID

Step 11: Input Client ID

Step 12: Consent in Zoho

Step 13: Input Client Secret

Step 14: Complete Setup
 You can now see the Design in Aurora Button on a lead's page

 