











Gain a Competitive Edge with These Principles of Solar Customer Service | Aurora Solar
































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            Gain a Competitive Edge with These Principles of Solar Customer Service                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















The solar industry is getting increasingly competitive, so understandably sales and customer acquisition are a top priority for solar companies. But focusing too much on the sales side and failing to prioritize quality at all stages of the customer’s experience after they sign on the dotted line is a costly mistake.

While delivering excellence takes some time and attention, it is this long-term approach that will lead to satisfied customers who can’t wait to tell their friends and neighbors about going solar with your company. In today’s article, we highlight some of the processes and protocols that are central to delivering a good customer experience at each stage of the customer’s interaction with your solar company.
For insights, we spoke with staff at Baker Electric Solar , a leading solar installation company in the San Diego area. The company has won the Better Business Bureau’s International Torch Award for Ethics and the Angie’s List Super Service Award. With over 60% of its business coming from customer referrals, it’s safe to say that Baker knows a thing or two about how customer service can provide a competitive edge. 
Communication is Key  
As with any relationship, effective communication provides the foundation of a good rapport between companies and their customers. Good communication is essential at all stages of the customer experience—from the first sales call to the the completion of the installation and beyond. There a few key elements of effective communication with customers:
Be proactive
One of the most important elements of communication that will lead to satisfied customers is that it is frequent and regular. For Baker, this means being in touch with the customer and providing updates at a minimum of every two weeks—even in cases where there may be an expected pause in the progression of the project.
Set clear expectations
It’s also essential that customers have a clear understanding of what to expect at the outset—from the timeline for the installation and the steps that will be involved to the design of the installation and the chosen components.  
Project Manager Tim Finn explains that for Baker Electric Solar, one of the most important parts of their communication with the customer is providing a detailed overview of the system design at the outset. “We send that out to the customer and get their sign-off on it, making sure that they’ve reviewed the plans, they understand what the layout is going to look like, and they approve of it. That way, if there are any questions … we can answer them then, versus when we’re on the job site.”
Successful communication also means anticipating any potential challenges in the project and communicating early and often about them so that the customer and contractor are always on the same page.
These principles underpin all aspects of the customer’s experience; however, there are other key factors that define great customer service at different stages in the customer’s process of going solar.
Service from the Start
Building a relationship with the customer begins at the sales stage, and a central element of good service at this point is taking the time to understand the customer’s needs and goals. Service Manager Josh Lennard explains that, during the sales process, Baker “works with the customer to understand their expectations, their needs, and goals that they have for getting solar.”
This involves “talking about the equipment, their savings, their consumption history, the design ideas that might be available to them…. The communication at that point, is very nurturing with the customer; you’re building a relationship… and thinking out of the box if needed in order to meet their goals.”
At the conclusion of the sales stage, the customer should have clear understanding of what to expect going forward.
Managing for Customer Satisfaction
The next step in delivering a great customer experience depends upon effective management of the project’s implementation. In addition to being proactive about updating the customer on the project’s progression and communicating in advance about potential challenges, being accessible to the customer is a key element of customer service for Baker. This might mean designating a point person who will be responsible for promptly answering any questions.
Of course, customer satisfaction is contingent upon installation quality so attention to detail in the design is crucial. Software like Aurora that offers validated shading analysis and energy production estimates, and checks for NEC violations and other design errors can be a valuable tool. 
Finally, ending the installation phase on a strong note is also important. For Baker, a key element of this is the project hand-off, in which they have a final meeting with the customer and help them understand what to expect going forward. 
Lennard explains that at the end of the installation, “Someone goes out to walk them through the system and show them exactly how it works so the customer is not confused. It also gives us a last chance to confirm that nothing is wrong and to answer any remaining questions that the customer may have. That way we can leave them with a positive impression,” says Lennard. This process also lets Baker highlight their post-installation service.
Post-Installation Service
Another key way companies can differentiate themselves with customers is through the way that they support their customers and guarantee their work after the project is completed. For Baker, this involves a robust warranty program including a 10-year standard warranty of system components and workmanship; energy production monitoring systems for customers; as well as an extended 25-year inverter warranty. 
In the rare event that a customer experiences an issue, a quick resolution makes them happy to have selected a company that is there for them over the long term—and much more likely to refer their friends and family.

This attention to customer satisfaction at all stages is central to Baker’s ability to acquire a significant portion of their customers through referrals. Incorporating some of these approaches can enhance your company’s reputation and provide a competitive edge. 























                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















