











Can an API do that? Request an On-Demand Roof Model | Aurora Solar


































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            Can an API do that? Request an On-Demand Roof Model                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















Roof modeling is one of the parts of the solar install process that has been changed the most by technology. What used to require several truck rolls, manual inputs, and complex tools, can now be accomplished in minutes, without visiting the site at all. 
Just a few years ago, solar designers relied on multiple truck rolls and site visits to generate accurate site models for solar system designs. Advances in solar software have changed that. Our customers now use Aurora to remotely model and design installable solar systems, all from their computers. 
Even more, Aurora’s Expert Design Service enables growing businesses to scale more quickly and efficiently by leveraging Aurora’s team of expert designers to produce site models on demand. In fact, our Expert Design Service team produces roof models for 30-40% of all Aurora projects today.
Have a difficult project? Expert Design Service can help.
But really, there’s no limit to the reasons that you might request a roof to be modeled for you, rather than modeling it yourself. When it comes to Aurora customers, some of the most common reasons we hear are:
The quality of the roof models matters. It’s hard to get an accurate production estimate if a system is built on an inaccurate roof model.Hiring enough designers is difficult. As a solar company scales, finding enough designers, quickly enough, to meet demand can be tough. The natural ebbs and flows of the solar business. Nobody installs the same number of roofs every month; some months are incredibly busy, making design a strain on other areas, while other months are slower, and designers might be underutilized.Turnaround time. Aurora’s default SLA is 3 hours but most roof models are completed in less than an hour (or you can use our Expedited service to get it done in 30 minutes). It’s hard for internal designers to complete models that quickly. (It’s hard for our competitors, too.) Solo’s proposal turnaround time, for example, is measured in days.
What it comes down to is that using roof design services can help solar businesses turn around designs more quickly, while keeping costs down and accuracy high. 
How to request a roof model anytime, anywhere
When your company needs roof modeling services — for any reason — you can request them within Aurora with a few clicks.
This blog walks through all the steps and links out to some helpful resources.
But, what if you want to embed the process to request a model right into your existing systems and processes? Or even automate a request as soon as an opportunity is created? There are a number of reasons you might want to do this, but there are a couple we’ve seen a lot with Aurora customers:
To operate beyond a certain scale, solar installers have to automate workflows wherever possible, including roof model buildouts.Building roof models is often done before home visits. Since all you need to create a site model is an address, many of our customers trigger Expert Design Service requests via API calls as soon as a new lead’s address is populated in their CRM.
Programmatically request Aurora’s Expert Design Services 
With Aurora’s Sync API, you can build custom workflows that fit your business needs and existing systems, ultimately helping you scale faster and smarter. Sync API includes a suite of API endpoints and webhooks that help you programmatically deliver information across systems and get notified in real-time of any updates from Aurora.
In this tutorial, we’ll show you how to use our Design Requests endpoint and corresponding webhook to programmatically request a roof model for any of your existing systems, and get a notification for when that model has been completed by Aurora’s expert team of designers.
To get started, you’ll need:
your Aurora tenant to be on the Custom planyour Aurora bearer tokenyour Aurora tenant_idURL to deliver Aurora webhooks to
You or any Administrator for your Aurora tenant can retrieve the token and tenant ID from the API Settings page.
Step 1. Subscribe to a design request completion webhook event
Subscribe to the design_request_completed webhook event, pointing webhooks to your application that will process them.

Step 2. Create a project
Create a project using an address that will be instantly filled by the mock Expert Design Service.

Step 3. Make an Expert Design Service request
Request a roof model to be created for the project_id returned by the request above.

Step 4. Look up the design_id for the newly created design
On the webhook receipt, look up the design_id for the newly created design.

Get started
Ready to take your workflows to the next level? If you’re not an Aurora customer, or you’re not on a Custom Aurora plan, schedule a free demo to learn more.
Already an Aurora customer? Check out our technical documentation page to implement this workflow for your company today!

















                        Ready to learn more?                    







 



                    Aurora Updates                



                    Products & Features                



                    Solar 101                



                    Technology                


            6 min read        



            Scale Your Solar Organization Seamlessly With APIs        






 



                    Aurora Updates                


            3 min read        



            Top 10 Things You Didn’t Know Aurora Can Do: #1 — Expert Design Service        






 



                    Sales & Design                



                    Solar 101                


            7 min read        



            Ready to Scale Your Solar Company? Start Here        












                                    Show previous slide                                



                                    Show next slide                                





        All Posts    



















                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















