











Top 10 Things You Didn’t Know Aurora Can Do: #2 — Advanced User Roles & Permissions | Aurora Solar

































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            Top 10 Things You Didn’t Know Aurora Can Do: #2 — Advanced User Roles & Permissions                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















These days, running a solar business means having to manage a constantly changing business landscape. Whether it’s adopting a new in-house sales team, managing a growing network of sales dealers, or expanding to a new region, you have a lot to keep track of.
“When you’re working with hundreds of different sales organizations, it becomes an interesting challenge. At our level of scale, selling an inaccurate system at the top is super painful,” explains Trace Rucarean, CMO of Better Earth, at Aurora’s Empower 2022. “We need to make sure that our sales teams sell exactly what our install and design teams will use to build systems.”
This is where some of Aurora’s advanced team permissions, like Advanced Roles and Teams, can help ensure that the designs your teams sell are accurate and error free. How?
How Aurora helps
In this blog we’ll look at a couple tools administrators have to help organize and control what their sales teams and dealers can see and edit in Aurora designs. This not only helps avoid mistakes, but significantly simplifies the process for sales reps.
Common mistakes like selecting the wrong component for an install, or changing an existing site model, can have large consequences for your business — from extra truck rolls, to having to redesign sites, and more.
We’ll cover how to set up configure custom user permissions and organize visibility barriers between teams and dealers.
How to limit access with User Roles
User Roles in Aurora empower businesses with growing teams to effectively manage visibility and access rights across internal teams and dealer partners. With both Standard and Advanced Roles, administrators can limit control across users to minimize risk of error and change orders.
Aurora’s Standard Roles of Admin, Team Member, and Limited Team Member can help smaller organizations manage their different user types. At a glance, they cover the basics:

Admins can view, modify, and change ownership of all projects and permissions of all users
Team Members can view and modify projects, but they can only reassign their own projects
Limited Team Members can view and modify only their own projects, and admins can restrict Limited Team Members from editing site models

In addition to these Standard Roles, Advanced Roles allow admin users to create up to four custom roles within the Aurora app.
Click the image to go to the Help Center article on User Roles.
Each of the roles created can be configured with different permissions, like limiting project visibility, pricing edit access, and Design Mode access (and we’ll continue to add permissions over time).
Now, as processes and requirements grow as your business scales, you can count on Aurora to help you easily manage your teams and control their access. For example, you can restrict your sales reps from editing site models, so you won’t have a rogue sales person trying to change the site design. Or, you can limit your contractors to seeing only projects assigned to them, minimizing any risk of exposing projects to your third-party dealers or designers.
How to limit project visibility across teams and dealers
Teams in Aurora enables scaling solar businesses to manage user groups and project visibility. Administrators can set up global database settings for all users, and use Teams to create visibility barriers across internal teams and dealer partners to promote privacy and territory controls.
Click the image to go to the Help Center article on Teams.
From the Aurora settings, the Teams tab allows administrators to create, manage, and delete Teams in Aurora. From there, every project can be assigned to a team, and only admins and the users on that team are able to view and edit the project.
Teams are helpful for companies with growing sales teams — internal or external. For example, you may want to organize your internal sales teams by region, like Long Island, Westchester, and Brooklyn (for the New Yorkers out there). When you do this, sales managers can view and track performance by region, and identify areas of improvement across their sales teams.
Or, as you begin to take on sales dealers to sell your products and services, you can organize these individual dealers into teams. That way, the dealers all have access to the same database settings you use across the organization, but they can only view their own projects. Setting up these visibility barriers minimizes conflicts of interest and ensures dealers are viewing only relevant projects.
Especially as businesses scale, even the small mistakes add up and can materially affect your bottom line. With Aurora’s administrator tools, solar businesses can customize the software to fit their ever-changing needs.
Want to learn more? We have a couple Help Center posts with more details:

User Management: Teams
Advanced Roles

Then, schedule a live demo to learn more about how these features can help your business, in particular.
And don’t forget to check out our dedicated Aurora Top 10: All In One Place page to learn about other Aurora features you may not know about. 
Do you have suggestions for an issue or feature you’d like to see covered? We’ll have some Aurora gifts for any ideas we use. Email us here.

















                        Related Posts                    







 



                    Aurora Updates                



                    Products & Features                


            1 min read        



            The Top 10 Things You Didn’t Know Aurora Can Do: All In One Place        












                        Industry                    







        Aligning Teams and Processes to Deliver a World-Clas...        



















                        Commercial                    







        Creating an Automated Process: Integrate & Scal...        



















                                    Show previous slide                                



                                    Show next slide                                





        All Posts    



















                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















