











Top 10 Things You Didn't Know Aurora Can Do: #1 — Expert Design Service | Aurora Solar
































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            Top 10 Things You Didn’t Know Aurora Can Do: #1 — Expert Design Service                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















When you have house projects to take care of, there’s always the question of whether to do them yourself or hire an expert. 
The choice you make comes down to a few factors:

How difficult is the job? You’re probably more likely to hire an expert to replace your furnace than you are to replace a lightbulb.
How time-sensitive is it? You’re more likely to call a plumber to replace a broken hot water heater than you are to fix a slowly dripping faucet.
How many other things do you have going on? If you have 15 other projects that need to get done, you’re more likely to hire an expert to complete some of them.
How visible is it? You might want an expert to paint your house, but be willing to paint a wall in the basement yourself.

Solar installers face similar decisions with every system design. 
Why Expert Design Service is Important
For solar installers, completing the maximum number of projects possible is critical to survival, and growth. But, you also have to make sure that you’re doing things accurately to avoid costly change orders and to make sure you meet your power production guarantees and other metrics.
Even the best solar designers can use a hand. Whether it’s a particularly complicated project, or your business is too busy to quickly turn around accurate designs, or you want your designers to be able to help out more with all aspects of a proposal, or any number of other reasons, sometimes you need help. 
So, for our #1 Thing You Didn’t Know Aurora Can Do, we wanted to highlight a way Aurora can take some of the solar system design burden off your plate.
How Aurora Helps
Aurora’s Expert Design Service can help you deliver dead-on accurate 3-dimensional models in less than three hours — with an average time of about an hour (contact us to see about plans that guarantee 30-minute turnaround times). 
You send the specs, one of Aurora’s designers takes on the project, and a 3D model comes back that’s ready to go. And since experts create the models, you can feel confident that they’ll be accurate.
How to Use Expert Design Service
Since the whole point of Expert Design Service is making your life easier, getting started and using it is just a matter of a few clicks.
Each design costs just $14.99, or you can get 10 for $99.99. Click here for more info on how to order. (A quick note: Some of these pages refer to “Expert Design Service” as “3D Modeling Service (3DMS)”. They are the same thing.)
Once you’ve created a new project, you simply create a new design and then click the “Make a Request” button that pops up. 

 
Then, just drag the green icon over the property and click the green “Request” button.

 
That’s it. Designs are ready in 3 hours (or less). You can check the progress of your designs either within the project, or in the Projects tab.

And, unlike home remodeling projects, if a design isn’t up to your expectations, you can request a redesign or refund with a simple click. (Wish we could do that with our home-repairs contractor!)

You can see more details about the process here.

And that completes our series on the Top 10 Things You Didn’t Know Aurora Can Do. Thanks so much for reading, we hope you’ve learned a couple tricks to help each install become a little bit simpler, quicker, and more accurate. 
Be sure to check out our dedicated 10 Things You Didn’t Know Aurora Can Do homepage to learn about the other things we’ve featured so far. Then schedule a live demo to learn more about how these features can help you produce more accurate solar designs. 

​​Do you have suggestions for an issue or feature you’d like to see covered? We’ll have some Aurora gifts for any ideas we use. Email us here.























                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















