











3 easy ways to qualify a solar customer in 10 minutes | Aurora Solar































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            3 easy ways to qualify a solar customer in 10 minutes                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















Click above to watch the full webinar on-demand.
Unfortunately, solar doesn’t work for everyone. 
When trying to operate an efficient sales cycle, solar companies can’t afford to waste too much time and energy on the wrong customers. Since only about 2% of cold contacts can be expected to eventually turn into sales, every second counts when pitching and qualifying potential solar buyers. 
To cut down on lost time, future change orders, truck rolls, and even cancellations, solar companies must make their customer qualification process as fast and accurate as possible. 
Using technology to qualify leads quickly
With the right technology and resources, it’s now possible to qualify a solar customer in 10 minutes or less, almost anywhere in the world. 
In a recent webinar, Aurora Solar Senior Product Marketing Manager Katherine Burk Cheema explained that making small, subtle changes to your existing lead acquisition process can help streamline sales and avoid time wasted on unqualified contacts. 
To make the process as painless as possible for everyone involved, here are three simple steps for nearly instant solar customer qualification. 
1. Conduct a virtual solar assessment
The first step in every solar assessment is determining whether a property and its owner are fit for a PV system. While some experts can determine a home’s solar potential from its doorstep, most companies can’t afford the time and fuel it takes to drive and inspect every property that enters their sales cycle.   
Solar companies can save time and energy by allowing sales reps to fill their schedules with virtual solar assessments. Without having to travel to a customer’s home, solar providers can ask all of their most critical qualification questions online or over the phone to determine whether or not an installation is feasible.  
While every company has its own set of parameters to qualify a customer, virtual solar assessments can help you gather critical information, like:

The amount of sunlight the property receives
The customer’s current electricity consumption and expenses 
And whether or not they plan to move within the next few years 

A quick, accurate initial site assessment — without having to visit the site — is a key to success.
And since clear communication is one of the keys to a great customer experience, initial assessments can help potential buyers understand exactly why or why not solar is a good option for their property. Once a customer is qualified, companies can then afford to allocate more time toward an on-site assessment and next steps within the sales and installation processes. 
2. Quickly create an accurate site design 
With the customer’s precious attention on the line, a quick, customized site design is a great way to keep a homeowner engaged during a solar presentation. And while working efficiently to qualify the property, accurate projections of a site’s solar energy potential are critical to guarantee its value.
Maintaining careful attention to detail and using modern solar design techniques are the best way to guarantee accuracy during the PV planning process. Today, solar installers do not have to physically measure a customer’s roof size and pitch to qualify the property for solar. Instead, Aurora Solar’s LIDAR and irradiance features can instantly determine the amount of sunlight a property receives, making it easy to calculate its solar potential. 
Keeping every variable of the project in mind, accurate site designs must also account for any dormers or roof obstructions that could prevent panel placement, as well as surrounding trees or buildings that could partially shade a solar energy system. 
To qualify customers as quickly as possible, Sales Mode AI allows solar companies to generate accurate roof designs in 30 seconds or less. Packed with intelligent features, Sales Mode AI uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to continuously improve its speed and accuracy. 
Sales Mode makes it easy to accurately design a system — on the spot. (Click the gif to learn more.)
3. Educate and talk to your customer 
Most importantly, to fully understand whether solar will work for a customer, focus on honest education and open communication. With every qualifying question, you can build customer trust by explaining in detail what each of the answers tells you about their qualification status. 
Whether it’s how their credit score affects financing options, or how their electricity habits affect the size of their PV system, an open discussion can keep you and potential customers on the same page.   
This is important because fully understanding the lead’s perspective can help you avoid lost sales. So, never assume anything during a presentation, and always aim to listen and fully explain every step of the process while addressing any questions that arrive. 
Sales Mode gives you the ability to present a wealth of information to potential customers.
If a customer is qualified, tell them exactly why you believe this to determine whether you’ve overlooked any variables. And if a customer isn’t qualified, let them know exactly why not. By treating potential customers with honesty and respect, both qualified and unqualified homeowners will be more likely to recommend your services to others looking to go solar.  
Final thoughts
With the right technology, lead processes, and a keen focus on unique customer variables, solar companies can qualify homeowners in ten minutes or less. To streamline your sales processes, solar companies should consider conducting virtual assessments, finding ways to create instant site designs, and always allowing for open communication. 
And while nearly every solar company prefers to visit a job site at least once before construction begins, properly vetting interested homeowners saves a significant amount of time, energy, and resources from being spent on unqualified customers. 
For more information, watch the full customer qualification webinar and schedule a personalized demo to get all your specific questions answered. 























                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















