











Solar Storage and Home Batteries: What's Driving People to Buy? | Aurora Solar
































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            Solar Storage and Home Batteries: What’s Driving People to Buy?                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















One of the major trends in solar is the increase in storage adoption. As storage becomes more mainstream, organizations in the solar industry have had to update their business models to account for the demand. 
 Why is the demand for storage rising? The answer is complex and involves many different factors. 
First, let’s take a step back and think about why people go solar in the first place. The reasons include everything from saving money, to resiliency and energy independence. Adding storage further helps with self reliance and energy independence. 
Then there are natural events — like February’s storm in Texas, California wildfires, and others — that highlight our heavy dependence on the grid. Even COVID highlighted household energy use as more people spent time at home. At the same time, battery technology continues to improve and battery prices continue to fall, and there are even incentives that can help offset the cost. 
With these factors, and others, it makes even more sense why people want solar + storage. All together, the result has been consumers pushing solar installers to offer storage options.
It’s no surprise, then, that storage has been a common point of discussion during the 2020 and 2021 Empower virtual summits. This year, a couple Empower sessions looked at storage trends in detail and provided perspective on major questions facing the solar industry. In this blog, we’ll highlight how panelists answered two of the most pressing storage questions. 
The first is a little more theoretical: How does crisis play a role in storage purchases?
The second, a bit more practical: What has been your experience adding storage to your solar business?
To hear everything the experts had to say, listen to the full session replays:

Money on the Table: Expanding Your Business Through New Products
Finding Their “Yes”: What Really Drives a Homeowner’s Decision to Buy From You

Now let’s get to the questions. (Some responses have been lightly edited for length and clarity.)
How does crisis play a role in storage purchases?
With the tragic situation in Texas this past February serving as a recent example, not to mention the COVID-19 pandemic, the role of crisis in driving storage purchases has taken center stage. Scott Nguyen and Varun Rai both provide insight into how crises affect consumers.
Scott Nguyen, Co-founder & CEO, Bodhi
We went through what we now call the “Texas Blackout”. I had no power and no heat for over 40-something hours, same with many of the folks in our area, and it got cold. What that translated to is a lot of interest here in Texas in energy storage, for batteries.
A lot of the storage being sold previously was on-demand response, load shedding, and things like that. But when you talk about consumers right now, the interest they have is more for security, for independence, appealing to that innate desire for independence. So, I think that has changed quite a bit here in Texas.
Varun Rai, Director, The Energy Institute at the University of Texas at Austin
Crises raise the salience of issues because otherwise, these issues that are very important don’t get the attention they necessarily deserve. 
So, in raising the salience of these crises, beliefs can change. This gives us a reason to go back and re-evaluate, which can bring about behavior change. It depends on the intensity of the crises — it’s easier to change behavior when it requires less capital and effort. 
What has been your experience adding storage to your solar business?
Now let’s see how installers view the storage market. What’s on the minds of their customers, what storage needs do they have, and why are they adding battery storage? At Empower we had installers from many different regions of the US, here are their observations.
Rebecca Carpenter, Founder, Fingerlakes Renewables Solar Energy
Talking to people here in upstate New York, where I live, most of the storage systems I put in have been about security: heat security, meat storage, and things like that. Hunting for food is big up here, and people actually have thousands of dollars of food in their freezers. They also have very small blower fans on their wood or propane stoves. 
And, on top of that, we have very expensive electricity. I get very fascinated watching some of the changes in Texas, and what people are looking for, not having any real sense of the security issue because there hadn’t been a major event here. Up here, we’re pretty accustomed to major winter events and weather through them fairly well. 
Fortunat Mueller, President & Co-founder, Revision Energy 
We serve the Northeast: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, and Massachusetts, and the customer motivation for storage differs in different markets. For example, in Massachusetts and Vermont, there are some utility programs which make storage cost-effective for customers on the grid. In Maine and New Hampshire, primarily the motivation for storage is resiliency: We’re in a rural area, heavily wooded, with severe winter weather, and some long-term power outages.
So we’ve seen over the last couple years, as storage has become cheaper, an increasing faction of our solar customers are choosing to add storage — even in the absence of utility programs that make it cost-effective — really strictly for the resiliency benefit. And if there is an on-grid peak shaving benefit or other program, that’s sort-of gravy. The majority of our customers outside of Massachusetts are doing it essentially as a generator replacement. 
And it’s now close to a quarter of all our solar customers doing that.
Clayton Anderson, President, Elevation Solutions
We operate in eight different states [Arizona, California, Florida, Nevada, Texas, Utah, North Carolina, and South Carolina]. We see that the appetite for batteries is very much geographic — it’s unique to each geography, each market. A lot of our business is done in markets where there are time-of-use rate plans, but also demand-based rate plans, where rates are based on demand. So, batteries historically in those markets have been somewhat cost prohibitive, but the costs are coming down.
So, batteries, or demand managers, are something that our customers are really trying to ask a lot of questions about because they’re faced with these new rate plans that they frankly don’t understand, they just know that they’re going to be charged a lot more at certain times and a lot more if they do things that they don’t really know that they’re doing. So, batteries are becoming a very relevant part of the conversation every time we talk to customers.
So, we can see, the reasons consumers are choosing solar storage are truly varied, from wanting independence from high energy costs and demand shifting, to generator replacement and energy independence. Whatever the reasons, wherever you’re located, one thing is clear: storage is quickly becoming a “must have” for installers across the country. 
Cole Norton, Solar Sales Director, Rexel USA
As a distributor, we’re one step removed from the homeowner … [But,] certainly as part of the supply chain, we’re seeing astronomical growth within energy storage. We …  got serious about it last year, and it’s not just something that’s a nice to have, it’s quickly becoming a must have. 
If you’re servicing solar installers and you do not have this — specifically in California where our market is — the attachment rate is on the rise so quickly that if you’re not able to provide these solutions, you’re not going to be able to give even a very basic install. [We’re not talking about] even necessarily a super forward looking installer … pretty much everybody is going to be incorporating this into their business in some form.  
There’s no denying it: Storage is going to be an important aspect of solar sales in the future. And those installers that understand it will have a leg up on the competition. For a more in-depth look at strategies you can employ today to help level up your storage sales, check out The Pocket Guide to Selling Solar Storage, and stay tuned for more updates and information in the future. Until then, happy selling! 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Featured image by Dorin Vancea























                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















