











Understanding PV System Losses, Part 2: Wiring, Connections, and System Availability | Aurora Solar

































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                



















                                    5 min read                                


                            Understanding PV System Losses, Part 2: Wiring, Connections, and System Availability                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















As a solar contractor, one of the key promises you need to deliver on for your customers is that your solar installation will produce the amount of energy forecasted.
Yet there are a wide number of factors that impact how much your system will produce–from the physical characteristics of your chosen components to system design and installation decisions. Understanding factors that can reduce the energy production of your solar installation, and the extent of their impact, is key to arriving at an accurate production estimate.
In today’s article we explore wiring, connection, and system availability losses.
About This Series
In this series, we provide an overview of various causes of energy production loss in solar PV systems. Each article will explain specific types of system losses, drawing from Aurora’s Performance Simulation Settings, and discuss why they affect system performance.  
For Aurora users, this series will provide tips for improving the accuracy of your performance simulations by sharing research-backed recommendations for what values to input in your Simulation Settings for different loss types. While Aurora provides default values for these fields that fit most use cases, this series will also highlight cases in which you might want to use different values depending on the specifics of your design. (For a quick summary of system losses, and how to configure your account settings in Aurora, see the Aurora Help Center.)
This guide for picking better loss values will help you give your customers the most accurate estimate of how much their system will produce and how much they can save by going solar.
Want all this info in one handy package? Download The Ultimate Guide to PV System Losses.
Click above to download our full guide to PV system losses.
Solar PV System Wiring Losses
Suggested Values:

2% for most systems
1% if using thicker wires or very short runs

To understand wiring losses, let’s first review simple circuits. 
How PV Circuits Work
PV modules act as a voltage source that raises the DC voltage across its two terminals. 
Stringing PV modules in series adds the voltages, bringing the system up to a higher voltage, which is usually capped at 600 V in the United States and 1000 V in the EU. When the system is connected to an inverter, current begins to flow thanks to the voltage difference across the system.
What Causes PV Wiring Losses
In circuits, several components can cause a voltage drop, including resistors. Wires themselves have a small amount of internal resistance, the amount of which will be based on the gauge (thickness) of wire as well as its length. Installers can weigh the tradeoff between a thicker gauge of wire, which reduces resistive losses, with the increased cost.
The National Electric Code (NEC) specifies a minimum gauge for the wires based on the voltage and current involved in order to prevent electrical fires. 
However, the NEC does not dictate limits on wire losses. NREL’s study “Performance Parameters for Grid-Connected Systems” is a widely cited source of loss factors, and they suggest a 2% loss for DC wiring. Systems with shorter wire runs between the modules and inverter, or with thicker wire, may see a loss closer to 1%.

PV Connection Losses
Suggested Value: 0.5%
What is a PV Connector?
PV connectors have multiple uses in a PV system. They predominantly help connect modules on series strings. They also connect modules to module-level devices on systems using microinverters.
What Causes PV Connection Losses?
Connection losses capture resistive losses across wiring connectors and diodes. Most solar panels contain bypass diodes, which let other modules on a string circumvent a panel that is shaded or otherwise poorly performing. 
These components have a small voltage drop, caused by the internal resistance of the material and imperfections in the contact surface. An NREL study found a value of 0.5% loss for these components. 
Note that while adding DC optimizers to an array will double the number of connections, the extra connective losses are captured in the DC Optimizer component losses. 
PV System Availability
Suggested Values:

3% for most systems
As low as 0.5% if alert system or O&M are expected to prevent down time

“System availability” is a generic loss value. It is meant to capture events that knock out the system entirely – including inverter shutdowns or failures, grid outages, or other actions that disconnect the PV system and prevent it from producing electricity for the home. The exact timing and duration of such outages is unpredictable, so the industry approach is to model these as a flat percentage loss spread out across the entire set of hours.
How Aurora Deals with System Availability
Aurora sets a default value of 3%, which is the same used by PVWatts. In cases where there is an operations and maintenance or fault alert system set up, the availability loss can be as low as 0.5%.
Using Solar Software to Model PV Wiring and Connection Losses
Software like Aurora, that simulates electrical behavior within the circuits of your solar PV installation, offers a significant advantage for accurately estimating your customer’s solar energy production. However, understanding system loss factors, so you can tailor these percentage losses to the specifics of your design, offers an additional layer of precision. In future articles, we will explain other PV system loss types, including soiling, snow, and degradation due to age.
Having trouble accurately estimating system losses? Aurora can help. Sign up for our free demo to learn more.
About Our PV System Losses Series
This article is part of Aurora’s PV System Losses Series. Each article explains specific types of system losses, drawing from Aurora’s Performance Simulation Settings, and discusses why they affect system performance.

Understanding PV System Losses, Part 1: Nameplate, Mismatch, and LID Losses
Understanding PV System Losses, Part 2: Wiring, Connections, and System Availability
Understanding PV System Losses, Part 3: Soiling, Snow, System Degradation
Understanding PV System Losses, Part 4: Tilt & Orientation, Incident Angle Modifier, Environmental Conditions, and Inverter Losses & Clipping

To get all this information in one place, download The Ultimate Guide to PV System Losses.
Click above to download our full guide to PV system losses.
























                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















