











Reading your electricity bill: a beginner’s guide | Aurora Solar

































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            Reading your electricity bill: a beginner’s guide                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















Welcome to the third installment in our six-part series on Solar Installer Basics 101, updated in late 2022. In our previous article, we explored how the photovoltaic (PV) panels you install on customers’ roofs convert sunshine into clean energy. You already know how this process works, but being able to explain it to end-users can help make converting customers much easier.
Click the image to download the full guide in printable form.
The same is true when walking customers through their electricity bills. Your ability to explain how their utility statements work — and where the largest savings might reside — will make it easier to close the sale.
Why every solar project should start with an electric bill
The average utility customer doesn’t think much about the details of their electricity bills — except to lament how high they might be climbing. However, utility statements actually provide a treasure trove of valuable information to facilitate the solar installation process and help your customers maximize their financial and environmental savings.
For solar professionals, these bills are an easy way to quickly understand how much energy a customer uses, which is a key factor in determining what size PV system will meet their needs (the topic of our next installment in this series). These bills also show how the local utility company calculates a customer’s electricity charges, which can have important solar design implications.
For homeowners or businesses considering solar, having a deeper understanding of the information contained in their electricity bills can offer insights into whether installing solar makes sense, as well as whether switching to another billing plan may increase savings.
In this article, we explain the terms, sections, and calculations in an electric bill — and how these variables change when a customer installs solar on their home or business.
Rate plans
An electricity bill is a charge for the grid power a home or business consumes. This consumption is measured in kilowatt-hours (kWh), and customers are charged a per-kWh rate. These rates differ across utility markets and are calculated differently depending on the customer’s “rate plan.” Rate plans specify the rules for how customers’ bills are calculated, with utilities typically offering multiple tiers and types.
Common rate plans include:

Fixed rates
Time of Use (TOU) rates
Tiered rates

While a fixed rate plan charges the same amount for every kWh consumed, under TOU rates and tiered rates, the price per kWh changes depending on the time of day (peak vs. off-peak) or the total amount of energy consumed, respectively. 
A customer’s rate plan will determine what is displayed in the different sections of their utility bill. It also impacts how much that user pays to their power provider every month, and by extension how much they can actually save by going solar. Depending on their energy consumption patterns, customers may pay more or less for the same amount of electricity under different utility rate plans.
For a more in-depth discussion on different utility billing approaches, see our Solar Utility Bill series.

Utility bill sections
An electricity bill is broken down into several different sections, each of which provides important information. While the names and contents often differ depending on the utility, we explain some of the most common sections below.

Account Summary
The Account Summary generally appears on the front and center of the bill. This section provides an overview of the account status, including:

The customer’s previous account balance
Any payments made on the previous balance
The new amount owed for the current billing period

If the customer gets electricity and gas from the same utility, the Account Summary will include charges for both of these services.
Bill Details
This section shows the number of kWh the customer consumed during the billing period — and the rate they paid per kWh. The information that’s included (and how it is formatted) will change depending on the utility and rate plan.
Electricity Charges Breakdown
The per-kWh rate shown in the “Bill Details” section is made up of many smaller charges. In addition to covering the cost of the energy consumed, some of these charges are used to maintain and upgrade the electric grid and to fund other state-sponsored energy initiatives. The names and amounts of these electricity charges vary by utility market, but generally include a:

Generation Charge: This charge supports the cost of producing the electricity used.

Transmission Charge: This charge supports the cost of transmitting electricity from power plants, over high-voltage lines and towers, to distribution systems.

Distribution Charge: This charge supports lower-voltage system costs stemming from the power lines, poles, substations, and transformers that connect to homes and businesses.


If you are interested in your utility’s additional electricity charges, visit their website for further information.
Usage Profile
Many utilities provide usage profiles that show a customer’s total monthly consumption over the previous 12 months. This gives a good visual representation of how much energy they consume annually. And some usage profiles even include previous years so that customers can track their consumption habits over longer time frames.
How electricity bills change with solar
When a homeowner or business in the U.S. installs solar panels, they typically become a net metering customer. Net metering is a policy used throughout most of the country that credits solar customers for excess solar energy they feed into the electricity grid:

During the day, customers send unused solar power into the utility grid — generating credits that they can use to offset future electricity statements.
When their PV panels stop producing power (at night, when it’s cloudy, etc.) those customers buy power from the grid. 

With net metering, each solar customer ultimately owes their power provider the “net” difference in grid electricity bought and sold. But with enough PV capacity installed, it becomes possible for a solar customer to eliminate their utility bills entirely — or even be owed electricity or credits from their power provider. 
This explains why participating in net metering programs often changes the way these customers’ bills are calculated. After installing a PV system on their home or business, a customer’s utility statement may include:

Minimum Delivery Charge: This is a charge that some utilities require solar customers to pay to support the cost of electricity grid upkeep. This charge ensures that enough funds are available to maintain and upgrade the grid in situations where solar customers produce enough energy to pay nothing for electricity.

Net Usage: This represents the total electricity consumption minus the total amount of electricity sent back to the grid by the solar installation. Net usage may be represented differently for customers on a Time-of-Use (TOU) rate plan. This is because the utility separates the day into “peak” and “off peak” hours, and charges different rates for energy used during each time period. In this case, net usage may be split into “Net Peak Usage” and “Net Off-Peak Usage.”


Additionally, the timing of bills may change after installing solar, depending on the utility. Some utilities bill solar customers every month, while others bill on an annual basis. This yearly statement is sometimes referred to as a “true-up” and reconciles the customer’s energy production and consumption in a single statement at the end of a 12-month period.
If you’re new to the solar industry, understanding the nuances of electricity bills can be a helpful when navigating other aspects of the solar design and sales process — like how to size a PV system (which we delve into in the next article in this series). Whether as an installer or a utility customer, understanding electricity bills allows you to quickly identify potential savings and determine whether installing solar makes financial sense.
About Solar PV Education 101
This blog is part of Solar PV Education 101, a six-article series that serves as an introductory primer on the fundamentals of solar. We’re updating each piece in late 2022, so be sure to check back often for the most recent information.
Part 1: The Beginner’s Guide to Solar Energy (Updated 11/9/2022)
Part 2: How a Photovoltaic System Produces Electricity (Updated 11/10/2022)
Part 3: Reading Your Electricity Bill: A Beginner’s Guide (Updated 11/15/2022)
Part 4: How to Size a PV System from an Electricity Bill (Updated 12/9/2022)
Part 5: Shade Losses for PV Systems, and Techniques to Mitigate Them (Updated 12/12/2022)
Part 6: The Basic Principles that Guide PV System Costs (Updated 12/13/2022)
And be sure to download the PDF version to give to reps, installers, and even customers looking to learn more about the basics of solar.
Click the image to download the full guide in printable form.

















                        Ready to learn more?                    







 



                    Sales & Design                



                    Solar Design                


            1 min read        



            3 New Tools to Help You Design Solar More Efficiently        






 



                    Aurora Updates                



                    Sales & Design                



                    Solar Sales                


            1 min read        



            4 Ways for Solar Leads to Share the Utility Bill Data You Need        






 



                    Sales & Design                



                    Solar Sales                


            1 min read        



            Are Your Load Profiles for Solar Customers as Accurate as You Think?        












                                    Show previous slide                                



                                    Show next slide                                





        All Posts    



















                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















