











Solar Sales: Communication Is Key — How to Lower Your Customer Acquisition Costs | Aurora Solar
































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            Solar Sales: Communication Is Key — How to Lower Your Customer Acquisition Costs                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















According to SEIA, nine out of ten Americans support the growth of solar and a majority favor renewable energy over fossil fuels. Yet that support doesn’t always translate into action. So how do we communicate to prospective solar buyers in a way that drives sales?
This month on the blog and in The Current, we’re focusing on all aspects of solar sales: from knowing your customers, to sales techniques, to tools to help you do the job. Last week, in our first post, we took a deep dive into types of consumer behavior and how to tailor sales tactics based on them. 
This week, we take the next step and look at different ways to engage potential customers. We’ll explore how to avoid common (and costly) mistakes with leads and referrals by utilizing powerful communication techniques to lower your overall customer acquisition costs. 
Turning Solar Support Into Solar Sales: 5 Tactics for Effective Communication
Try incorporating these 5 key strategies into your solar sales efforts to connect with new audiences and convert more prospects into customers. 
Engage Solar Leads with the Right Use of Choices
You know well that too many choices can actually be harmful when selling solar. Here’s how you can avoid offering too many choices while giving your customer a comprehensive and thoughtful number of options. 
How to Effectively Address the Competition in Your Solar Sales
When discussing options with your leads, it is important to know how to address your competition. This article contains common mistakes to avoid and helpful communication tips you can use when discussing your competitors with your leads. 
Boost Your Solar Sales Success with Faster Lead Follow up
Customer acquisition is one of the biggest challenges for solar companies and one of their most significant costs. This means that when you connect with a prospective customer it’s critical to avoid mistakes that could cost you the sale. 
Avoid Lost Solar Sales by Understanding Leads’ Perspectives
Another way to avoid a lost sale is by better understanding your leads. The increasing competition and market saturation in the solar industry means that sales pros need to use their most effective strategies when trying to win prospective customers. This article explores the problems associated with assuming prospective customers share your opinion about solar and how to understand their needs to close the sale. 
Why and How to Keep in Touch with Past Solar Customers
Since leads are such a valuable commodity for solar contractors, it is vital to avoid the mistake of losing contact with past customers, particularly ones who have had their system for a long time. Keeping in touch with previous customers can also help you acquire new referrals, and boost your company’s reputation in the market. 
Stop Missing Out on Solar Customer Referrals
According to Nielsen, 83% of surveyed consumers say recommendations from people they know are their most trusted source of information. Get the referrals you need and lower your customer acquisition cost by using these techniques. 
Don’t Give Up Too Soon on Solar Leads or Referrals
You know that sometimes your quality leads are interested in solar but aren’t in the place to buy just yet. Timing is everything.
In a two-year study about customer acquisition in the solar industry, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) found that it is common for solar contractors to give up too soon on referrals from past customers, as well as some of their leads, whereas persistence and follow-up can generate additional sales. 
The final article of our communication series, then, covers the benefits of strategic outreach to leads and referrals over the long term. 

Next week, for our final sales series post, we’ll examine how to transform your team’s efficiency and optimize your sales funnel with solar software. You’ll get solar software pointers, and learn remote sales strategies to help your team identify qualified leads faster and reach them when they’re ready to buy. 
In the meantime, to get more information about what’s going on in the solar industry, subscribe to The Current. 
Here are the links to each blog in the Solar Sales series:

Game Changing Tech — The Ultimate Toolkit for Streamlining Solar Sales
How to Effectively Engage & Communicate with Your Leads
From Pitch to Proposal — Strategies to Improve Your Lead-to-Win Rate

Questions about our series or suggestions for what you’d like to see? Drop us an email and let us know.
 
Featured image by Possessed Photography.
 























                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















