











3 Difficult Battery Storage Objections and How to Overcome Them | Aurora Solar
































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            3 Difficult Battery Storage Objections and How to Overcome Them                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















Although battery storage brings great value to most homeowners, there are some that need extra convincing before they feel comfortable pulling the trigger on a battery storage solution. If you have ever struggled with a potential customer’s apprehensions about buying battery storage, you are not alone.
In this blog post, we will cover the three most common battery storage objections homeowners bring up when considering a home battery – and we’ll also provide some examples of how you can respond to overcome those objections and increase your battery storage sales.
 
Storage Objection 1: Fast ROI
A very common hurdle solar installers have to overcome is the conversation about ROI. Some customers are focused on getting a return on their investment (ROI) fast, but in most cases keeping the conversation centered around ROI is a losing battle. Battery storage takes a lot of time to pay itself off – if at all. 
In order to help put your customer’s expectations about ROI in perspective, ask them questions to get insights into why they are focused on a fast ROI and exactly what this means to them. Some good questions are:

What does fast ROI mean to you?
Have you done any research into the ROI of storage?
Have you received any quotes from other providers offering ROI?

Asking questions like these opens up a discussion about ROI and gives you the opportunity to help them better understand the benefits of battery storage outside of ROI. A good way to approach this is by shifting the conversation towards peace of mind by asking questions like, “What would it cost you if the power went out and you couldn’t work for a few days?”. 
As an installer, it is your responsibility to manage the customer’s expectations so if the customer still insists on a fast ROI, you can propose they buy a cheaper battery. However, make sure they understand that a cheaper battery will likely need to be replaced sooner.
 
Storage Objection 2: 100% Backup
Some homeowners are under the impression that they need 100% backup of their energy use for several days. If you run up against this storage objection, a good solution is to explain to them that backing up all of their energy usage is expensive and rarely necessary, but how you explain this is very important.
Using the consultative process, you need to help them understand what they actually need so you can steer them towards the best battery storage option for them. 
Here’s how:
1. Uncover their needs
Dive deeper into your customer’s position on storage by asking them why they think they need 100% backup. Some good questions to ask are:



How did you come up with your storage needs so I can better understand which system would be best for you?
What’s your ideal budget for storage?



Once you better understand why the customer is asking for 100% backup, it will be easier for you to steer them towards a more realistic proposal.
2. Show them different options
If you show your customer what a 100% backup plan will look like for them, they may change their minds on their own. Start with modeling a system based on what they say they want and then show them several other options that you and your customer can have a conversation around. Make sure these packages are easy for the customer to understand. The best way to do so is by using the storage feature in Aurora, which comes with pre-built smart recommendations.
 
Storage Objection 3: High Pricing
Perhaps the biggest storage objection of all is pricing. No matter how interested a customer is in battery storage, the price can often scare them away. If you can, try to avoid bringing up pricing too soon to avoid giving the customer “sticker shock”. However, if the topic does come up, there are some smart ways to handle it:
1. Financing options and loans
If the price of a battery seems too high for your customer, explain to them that there are several ways for them to avoid paying in one lump sum. 
You can tell them about financing programs, leasing options, and loans that are available for them. These include options such as PACE loans, which add the cost of battery storage to their property tax. 
2. Tax incentives
You can also bring up any available rebates and credits, such as the 26% Investment Tax Credit, which has been extended until 2023. This tax credit allows the homeowner to deduct a large portion of the battery’s cost from their taxes in the form of tax credits.
3. Leasing Battery Storage
Some solar companies have actually started new programs in which they lease the battery to the homeowner rather than making the homeowner purchase it. The benefits of this are that if the battery gets damaged or stops working, the homeowner doesn’t have to pay for the replacement.
Here are some good questions to kickstart the pricing conversation:

There are financing options that would allow you to make monthly payments. Would you like to hear some of these options?
Are you interested in hearing more about leasing or loan options? 
There may also be storage incentives that you might be qualified for. Have you looked into these?

 
Pick Your Battles
In some cases, the potential customer may just not be a good fit – and that’s OK. Battery storage isn’t for everyone, and if your customer is unwilling to look at multiple options and insists on just getting the cheapest solution no matter what, it is possible that moving on from the deal is in your best interest. 
Remember, providing good and honest service goes a long way when it comes to your reputation. Selling a battery storage solution that the customer is not happy with can hurt your reputation and your referrals. On the other hand, being honest with a customer that storage may not be suitable for them will make it much more likely that they will refer you to their friends and family. 
To help you successfully sell battery storage, Aurora has developed a battery storage tool that allows you to calculate and scale battery storage solutions for your customers in real-time. You can also read our full Pocket Guide on Selling Storage, which contains sample questions, marketing examples, and much more.

 























                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















