











Solar Marketing: From Blog Post to Proposal — Strategies to Drive Storage Sales | Aurora Solar
































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            Solar Marketing: From Blog Post to Proposal — Strategies to Drive Storage Sales                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















While the demand for solar + storage is on the rise, and according to Aurora’s 2020 Solar Technology Benchmark Survey, 70% of solar installers are already offering solar storage options. Yet, many installers have yet to refine their storage sales process and are missing out on potential sales. 

Last week, we covered how offering your prospective customers informative solar content can lead to increased brand perception and quicker conversions. In this final article of our four-part solar marketing series, we’ll explore how to create useful content and effective storage proposals your prospects will love.
3 Ways to Market and Sell Solar Storage More Successfully 
Many solar installers don’t have a clear process for how to quote and sell storage, and often miss out on the sale. In this post, we cover how to position storage to prospective customers. 
Smart Software Features for More Storage Sales
To sell storage effectively, installers need a tool that:

Adds storage instantly to any existing solar project or proposal
Shows the financial breakdown of the battery system and the overall system cost
Shows the backup duration as hours, days, or a percentage

Take a look at this article to learn how Aurora’s storage features can help you close more storage sales.
Solar Storage and Home Batteries: What’s Driving People to Buy? 
Why is the demand for storage rising? Take a look at this article to explore what is driving the demand for solar storage and how to take advantage of these trends.
The Grow your Solar Business Bundle
Learn how to position your products and services to sell more solar.
This bundle includes:

Money on the Table: Expanding Your Business Through New Products
How to Grow Your Solar Business with Storage (Backed by Data)
How to Upgrade Your Lead Generation Program for the Post-COVID Era
And The Pocket Guide to Selling Storage

Download this free resource to get industry expert advice and resources that will help expand your solar business. 

That’s it for Solar Marketing Month, check out the other blogs to up your marketing game:

How to Win Over Prospects With Informative Solar Content
Brand Positioning 101: How to Set Your Company Apart From the Competition
Using the Internet to Grow Your Brand

We’ll be back in December with another topic that’s critical for solar installers: Regulations and Incentives. Until then, subscribe to The Current to get all the solar info that’s fit to print.























                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















