











2-Minute Lesson: Close Solar Deals Quicker With Integrated Financing | Aurora Solar
































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            2-Minute Lesson: Close Solar Deals Quicker With Integrated Financing                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















Sales is all about converting leads into paying customers, and doing it quickly. This is especially true in a competitive market like solar, where even the smallest delay can mean losing the sale to a more flexible competitor. 
At the same time, solar is an especially tough business to close deals quickly. Solar sales reps generally need to guide homeowners through a bunch of steps, using a bunch of different software systems. 
So how can you cut down all this software bloat and streamline the process, making it less confusing for customers, and enabling your reps to close more deals? 
Since speed is of the essence in sales, this blog will give you one big way to streamline your sales process in less than two-minutes of reading time.
The Financing Problem
Financing is one of the most complex things about a solar sale. If you’re like most installers you’ve dealt with it in one of two ways:

You’ve used Aurora, but you and your homeowners have had to jump through many hoops to finance the system by using and signing into multiple accounts and portals
You’ve tried to solve the problem by turning to less accurate Aurora competitors that having financing integrated into their product

Integrated Financing!
Well, say goodbye to this Sophie’s choice. 
Aurora now has financing options directly integrated into Sales Mode, with Mosaic as a partner. This lets reps streamline loan pre-approval and documentation — for themselves and customers. How? We’re approaching a minute, so we’ll keep it quick.
With Aurora’s Integrated Financing, your reps can:

Share side-by-side bill comparisons and apply for financing directly in Aurora, with the customer right there
Close deals faster by cutting down on the number of systems needed for customers to apply for financing
Reduce change orders and cancellations by getting rid of the error-prone manual data entry contracts usually require (and often has to be entered multiple times into multiple systems)
Get that one-call close by reviewing multiple pay-off scenarios in real-time with accurate, updated loan information
Close customers on the spot with automated document generation and integrated e-signature options

This, of course, just scratches the surface of how Integrated Financing can help your reps simplify the customer experience, achieve higher close rates, and ultimately generate more revenue. But, we promised you a two-minute read, so we’ll just answer the final question: 
How do you get Integrated Financing?
Integrated Financing is included in every New Aurora and Sales Mode contract or subscription — all customers based in the US doing residential projects have access to it. 
You can also use Integrated Financing with with some of our other solutions:

Web Proposal: This free feature lets you accurately show customers their loan and loan terms in their web proposal; this way, the customer can review the loan terms on their time while they consider the contract
Contract Manager: Automatically add financing terms directly to the contract, and then close the deal on the spot with e-signature capabilities (premium) 

 

To learn how to configure your Integrated Financing, see these (brief) step-by-step instructions. Current Aurora customers can activate Integrated Financing by going to the Integrations page in your Aurora settings.
We’re at the end of our time, but to learn more, watch our Sales Mode and Contract Manager webinar, visit our Sales Mode site, and then get in touch for a quick demo. 
We really think Integrated Financing will streamline your sales processes and ultimately lead to your reps closing more deals, more quickly. Give it a try and let us know if we’re right.























                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















