











Want your solar proposal to stand out? Customize it | Aurora Solar


































































                        Aurora Solar                    








Products





                                Engage                            



                                            Lead Capture AI
                                                                                    





                                Sell                            



                                            Sales Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Aurora AI
                                                                                    



                                            Contract Manager
                                                                                    





                                Deliver                            



                                            Design Mode
                                                                                    



                                            Expert Design Services
                                                                                    



                                            Plan Sets
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                Sell Battery Storage                                            








                                                NEM 3                                            









Resources





                                Resources                            



                                            Blog
                                                                                    



                                            Case Studies
                                                                                    



                                            Events
                                                                                    



                                            NEM 3 Resource Center
                                                                                    



                                            Content Library
                                                                                    



                                            API Documentation
                                                                                    



                                            Help Center
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Industry                                                

                                                Solar Industry Snapshot                                            








                                                    Webinar                                                

                                                How to Sell More Storage                                            









Company





                                Company                            



                                            About
                                                                                    



                                            Careers
                                                                                    



                                            Partners
                                                                                    





                            Featured Resources                        






                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Raising a Series D to Gear Up For Solar’s Extraordinary Growth                                            








                                                    Aurora Updates                                                

                                                Sunrise Sessions: Uniting Solar Design and Sales                                            









Careers
Pricing

Login
Schedule Demo
 

Login
Schedule Demo
 

                    Main menu                




















                            Want your solar proposal to stand out? Customize it                        




        Blog Main    






            Share        




                        Facebook                    





                        Twitter                    





                        LinkedIn                    

















Every solar sale is a story. A big part is the story of why a customer has decided to consider solar. And every successful solar salesperson pays attention to every customer’s wants and needs. 
But, in a market as crowded as solar sales and installation has become, you need to do everything you can to tell your story, also — to make your company stand out from the crowd.
And when you’re in front of a homeowner, nothing showcases your company quite like a professional, customized, personalized proposal. We’ve all seen those generic proposals — with too much text, minimal personal details, and nothing highlighting the company. They do nothing to set you apart in the customer’s mind, and can actually turn them off.
So, what can you do to make sure your proposal stands out, sticks in the customer’s mind, and highlights all the best your company has to offer?
In a recent webinar, Aurora Product Marketing Manager Stephen Gerken discussed how you can customize your proposals in Sales Mode to make sure they stand out. You can watch the whole webinar here, or by clicking below.
Watch the full webinar to get all the details.
In this two-part series based on the webinar, we’re highlighting 10 ways you can customize your proposals using Sales Mode. First, we’ll look at 5 ways customization can help you differentiate your company and boost homeowner confidence, then in the next post we’ll investigate 5 ways to educate the homeowner and overcome potential objections.
It’s important to note here, however, that you’re not limited only to these 10 things! Sales Mode gives you the flexibility to build the proposal that works best for your company. The level of customization and what content you include is up to you. 
Let’s get started.
About Us
With so much competition, you’re not just selling the customer on solar, you’re selling them on yourself. You need to be sure the customer knows what sets your company apart, whatever that is. 
Sales Mode lets you create a fully customizable “About Us” page so you can do just that. Have you been in business through thick and thin? Do you have some killer customer quotes? Do you have certifications? Highlight them on this page. 
This is the customer’s introduction to your company, it’s your chance to make a first impression. And we all remember what they say about first impressions, right? Not getting a second chance and all that? Make sure your first impression is exactly what you want it to be, and that it sticks with a compelling About Us section.
Highlight what makes your company special with a custom “About Us” page.
Testimonials
The partner feature to projects is testimonials. You’ve completed all those great projects, see if your customers are willing to talk about them. This personal touch can really resonate with customers. 
And, thankfully, this isn’t like online reviews where everyone can write whatever they want. Curate your best projects and customers and help them craft the perfect testimonial. 
Warranties
Another thing that resonates with customers? Warranties and guarantees. Remember, solar is a big, unfamiliar purchase for most of your customers. Anything you can do to set their mind at ease will help your close rates. 
A comparison table that shows what your company offers compared to the competition (provided you offer more), shows in a clear way why you’re the company to go with.
Your Projects
One of the best ways to prove you can complete a project is showing that you’ve completed similar projects before. So, make sure you highlight your successes in a visually compelling way. 
It can be a map showing your projects in the area, it can be photos of your best work, it can be a combination of both. Just make sure it stands out and showcases your company’s strengths.
Highlighting your best projects can give the homeowner confidence.
Partnerships & Certifications
In addition to being a big purchase, solar also has the reputation of being a long process with lots of hoops to jump through — mainly because it often is. But, if you have financing partners, or have a team of NABCEP-certified professionals, or are certified by the BBB, this can help customers understand that their project will go as smoothly as possible. 
Click above to watch the whole webinar.
Watch the whole webinar for step-by-step instructions on how to create pages like these — and more — and see some more real-life examples. Then check out our Help Center for even more information. 
Have a particular customization in mind? Schedule a *customized* demo (we walk our talk!) and we’ll walk you through it.
We’ll be back soon with the 5 customizations to help educate your customers and get them ready to buy.

















                        Ready to learn more?                    







 



                    Aurora Updates                



                    Products & Features                



                    Sales & Design                



                    Sales Proposals                



                    Solar Sales                


            3 min read        



            2-Minute Lesson: Close Solar Deals Quicker With Integrated Financing        






 



                    Sales & Design                



                    Solar 101                



                    Technology                


            3 min read        



            3 Solar Software Must-Haves For Growing Small Businesses        






 



                    Sales & Design                


            4 min read        



            Buying solar software is hard, here are 3 questions that make it easier        












                                    Show previous slide                                



                                    Show next slide                                





        All Posts    



















                                        Get Started                                    
                                
                                                                    Discover what you can do with Aurora                                                            



        Schedule Demo    
















                    Stay up to speed on the latest at Aurora                



 














ProductsPricing
Sales Mode
Aurora AI
Lead Capture AI
Contract Manager
Design Mode
Expert Design Services
Plan Sets
ResourcesBlog
Content Library
Events
Press Kit
AuroraAbout Aurora
Careers
 






                    Copyright © Aurora Solar 2023
                    Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookie Notice

Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Twitter
Linkedin
 





















